▗ ▗   ▖ ▖  Claude Code v2.1.97
           Opus 4.6 (1M context) · Claude Max
  ▘▘ ▝▝    ~/Desktop/projects/digit-recognizer

❯ Take a look at the digit recognizer proejct                                   

  Searched for 5 patterns, listed 1 directory (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Bash(cd /Users/harrisonhall/Desktop/projects/digit-recognizer && find .
      -maxdepth 4 -not -path '*/node_modules/*' -not -path '*/.git/*' -not -path
       '*/dist/*' -not -p…)
  ⎿  .
     ./.claude
     ./.claude/settings.json
     … +40 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

  Read 5 files (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Here's the project:

  Digit Recognizer — a from-scratch neural network that classifies handwritten
  digits (MNIST), built entirely in JS/TS with no ML libraries.

  Architecture

  - Two model variants:
    - 2-layer: 784 → 16 → 16 → 10 (ReLU hidden, sigmoid output) — ~96% accuracy
    - 1-layer: 784 → 10 (sigmoid only, no hidden layers) — ~92% accuracy
  - Training (train.mjs / train-1layer.mjs): Loads raw MNIST .gz files, runs
  mini-batch SGD (batch size 32, lr 0.5, 20 epochs) with backpropagation. He
  initialization. Exports weights to public/weights.json.
  - Inference (src/nn.ts): Lightweight NeuralNetwork class — loads exported
  weights and runs forward pass in the browser.

  Frontend (React + Vite)

  - Drawing canvas (280×280): Draw a digit with your mouse/touch, white on
  black.
  - MNIST-style preprocessing (getPixels): Crops to bounding box → resizes to
  fit 20×20 preserving aspect ratio → pads to 28×28 → shifts by center of mass
  to center at (14,14). This mirrors how MNIST images are formatted.
  - Live inference: Runs the network on every pointer move by default
  (toggleable).
  - Network visualization: SVG showing input thumbnail, hidden layer neurons
  (brightness = activation), inter-layer connections (blue = positive weight,
  red = negative), and output neuron bars with confidence percentages.
  - Model switcher: Toggle between the 2-layer and 1-layer models to compare.

  Clean project — all the ML math is hand-rolled, no dependencies beyond React.

✻ Sautéed for 1m 11s

❯ So look yeah I was tyring to bascially learn about how these nueral networks  
  work and so had built this, question for you, is it posisble to build some    
  sort of trading nueral network by applying these same concepts you think      

⏺ Short answer: yes, the math is identical. A feedforward net for trading is
  structurally the same — inputs go through weighted layers, backprop adjusts
  weights to minimize a loss function. Everything you built here (forward pass,
  backprop, SGD, activation functions) transfers directly.

  The hard part isn't the network — it's everything around it:

  What actually changes vs. digit recognition:

  - Inputs are ambiguous. MNIST has a clean mapping: pixel patterns → digit.
  Markets don't have that. Choosing what to feed the network (price deltas,
  volume, indicators, order flow, macro data, sentiment) is the real problem.
  Garbage features in = garbage predictions out.
  - Labels are tricky. MNIST gives you ground truth (it's a 3). For trading,
  what's the label? "Price goes up tomorrow"? By how much? Over what horizon?
  How you define the target shapes everything.
  - Non-stationarity. Digit shapes don't change over time. Markets do. A pattern
   that worked in 2020 may invert in 2024. Your model can overfit to a regime
  that no longer exists.
  - Signal-to-noise ratio is terrible. MNIST is ~pure signal. Market data is
  ~pure noise with faint signal buried in it. A 96% accuracy model on markets
  would make you the richest person alive — realistic edge is tiny.
  - Overfitting is the killer. With MNIST you have 60K clean labeled examples.
  Financial data is limited, noisy, and highly correlated across time. A net can
   memorize patterns that never repeat.

  If you wanted to try it with your exact codebase:

  1. Replace MNIST loading with price data (e.g., trailing N candles normalized
  to [0,1])
  2. Labels: 1 if price is higher after X bars, 0 if lower
  3. Train the same way — it'll run, it'll converge on training data
  4. Whether it generalizes to unseen data is the million-dollar question
  (literally)

  It's a great learning exercise either way. Just know that the gap between
  "neural net that works on clean data" and "neural net that makes money" is
  enormous — not because of the math, but because of the data problem.

❯ Like I feel like you need to clearly define things, thats what I was thinking 
   about like i was thinking what if you just replaced the input of the grid    
  data with like OHLC or something like that, but I woudl think this would      
  somehow need to be set like you would need ot define the range of data to     
  provide to it, like for example like you feed it the OHLC for the current     
  day, like i feel like you have to do something like lets say at 8am every day 
   your trying to predict where the price will go, or something like this? and  
  you need to clearly define your labels which is like up, down, or no whre,    
  but you ened to define what up is exactly and I feel like that needs ot be    
  defiend by both price and by like time, like you ahve to essentially          
  constrain the potential outputs? im not sure, something like this? like so    
  then your labels woudl have to be it went up 10 pips at some point from 8 am  
  to the end of the day, it went down 10 pips, from 8 am to the end of the day, 
   or it did not do either, like is this thinking accurate or no?               

⏺ Your thinking is spot on. You're basically describing the exact framework
  you'd need. Let me confirm why each piece matters:

  You're right that everything needs to be rigidly defined:

  1. Fixed input window. "OHLC for the last N candles before 8am" — the network
  needs the same shape input every time, just like it always gets 784 pixels. So
   you'd pick something like "the last 20 daily candles, each with OHLC +
  volume" = 100 input neurons. Normalized to [0,1] relative to some range.
  2. Fixed evaluation moment. "At 8am every day" — this is your equivalent of
  "here's an image, classify it." Without a fixed decision point, you don't have
   a well-defined problem.
  3. Fixed, concrete labels. This is where your instinct is exactly right. "Up"
  is meaningless without a threshold and a time window. Your three-class setup
  works:
    - Class 0: Price hit +10 pips from 8am price before market close
    - Class 1: Price hit -10 pips from 8am price before market close
    - Class 2: Neither happened

  That's clean. Each training day maps to exactly one label. No ambiguity.

  Why this framing works well:

  - It mirrors what you already built. MNIST has 784 inputs → 10 classes. This
  would be ~100 inputs → 3 classes. Same architecture, same math.
  - The labels are objective and verifiable from historical data — you can look
  at any past day and compute the label mechanically.
  - The 10-pip threshold + time window avoids the trap of trying to predict
  exact price, which is basically impossible.

  What you'd actually change in your code:

  - train.mjs: replace loadImages/loadLabels with a function that reads
  historical candle data, builds input vectors, and computes the 3-class labels
  from the price action that followed
  - Network shape: [100, 16, 16, 3] instead of [784, 16, 16, 10]
  - Output: 3 neurons (up/down/neither) instead of 10

  The network architecture and training loop stay almost identical. The entire
  challenge shifts to: does the data actually contain a learnable pattern, or is
   it noise? But as a framework for posing the question to the network — your
  thinking is correct.

❯ Now help me to understand something, How do you know how many nuerons to add  
  for each layer and how many hidden layers to add? Like so look i was aksing   
  another agent about this same proejc tand about the hidden layers and it was  
  tryign to ttell me something about how the hidden layers let it learn the     
  "feautres" whatever that means, and like teh edges and stuff liek that but is 
   that even true? because how do oyu know that?                                

⏺ Good question, and you're right to be skeptical.

  The "features and edges" explanation is half-true but misleading for your 
  network. That narrative comes from deep convolutional networks with thousands
  of neurons across many layers — researchers visualized what those neurons
  respond to and found early layers activate on edges, later layers on shapes,
  etc. That's real, but it's describing networks with very different
  architectures than yours.

  Your network has 16 neurons per hidden layer. It's not learning "edges" in any
   meaningful visual sense. What's actually happening is more abstract:

  What a single neuron actually does:

  Each neuron computes relu(w1*x1 + w2*x2 + ... + w784*x784 + bias). That's a
  weighted sum of all 784 pixels, then zeroed if negative. Geometrically, it
  draws a line (hyperplane) through the input space and says "this side = fire,
  that side = don't." That's it.

  What a hidden layer does:

  16 neurons = 16 different hyperplanes cutting through input space. The next
  layer combines those 16 signals. So the network can carve up the space of
  possible images into regions and assign different outputs to different
  regions. More neurons = more cuts = finer-grained regions = ability to
  represent more complex boundaries between "this is a 3" and "this is an 8."

  How do you know how many to use?

  Honestly — you don't. There is no formula. Here's what actually happens in
  practice:

  - You try a size, train it, check accuracy
  - Too few neurons → underfits (can't learn the pattern, low accuracy on
  training data)
  - Too many neurons → overfits (memorizes training data, low accuracy on test
  data)
  - You find a sweet spot empirically

  Your network is a perfect example. You could test this yourself right now:

  ┌────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │    Architecture    │              What would likely happen              │
  ├────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 784 → 4 → 10       │ Worse accuracy — not enough capacity to separate   │
  │                    │ 10 digits                                          │
  ├────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 784 → 16 → 16 → 10 │ ~96% — what you have, works well                   │
  ├────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 784 → 128 → 64 →   │ Maybe 97-98% — diminishing returns, slower         │
  │ 10                 │ training                                           │
  ├────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
  │ 784 → 512 → 512 →  │ Might overfit unless you add regularization        │
  │ 10                 │                                                    │
  └────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

  The honest answer is: 16 was a choice that worked. Someone (probably you)
  tried it, it got 96%, and that was good enough. If it had gotten 80%, you'd
  have tried 32 or 64. That's how it actually works — not derived from theory,
  but from experimentation.

  The "features" framing isn't wrong exactly, but when someone tells you hidden
  layers learn edges and curves, ask them: how would you verify that claim for a
   16-neuron layer? You can actually check — look at the weight vectors for each
   neuron in your first hidden layer. Each one is 784 weights, which you can
  reshape into a 28x28 image to see what pattern that neuron responds to. For
  your small network, they'll look like blurry blobs, not clean edges.

❯ So brute force is bascially what you do?                                      

⏺ Basically, yeah. There are some loose heuristics people use — start with
  something small, scale up until test accuracy stops improving — but at the end
   of the day it's trial and error.

  The fancy term is "hyperparameter tuning." The architecture (layer count,
  neuron count), learning rate, batch size, number of epochs — none of these are
   learned by the network. You set them, run training, look at the result,
  adjust, repeat.

  There are slightly more systematic ways to do the search (grid search, random
  search, Bayesian optimization) but they're all just structured brute force.
  Nobody derives the optimal architecture from first principles.

❯ Hmm wait so theres sysmtaic methods of finding what works best?               

⏺ Yeah. Instead of manually tweaking and retraining, you automate the search.
  The main approaches:

  Grid search — you define a grid of combinations to try:
  - Hidden sizes: [8, 16, 32, 64]
  - Learning rates: [0.1, 0.5, 1.0]
  - Batch sizes: [16, 32, 64]

  That's 4×3×3 = 36 combinations. Train all of them, pick the one with the best
  test accuracy. Simple but expensive — scales badly as you add more things to
  tune.

  Random search — instead of trying every combination, sample randomly from
  ranges. Sounds dumber but actually works better in practice because most
  hyperparameters don't matter equally. If learning rate matters a lot but batch
   size barely matters, grid search wastes most of its runs varying batch size.
  Random search naturally spends more coverage on the dimensions that matter.

  Bayesian optimization — this is the smart one. It trains a model of your 
  model's performance. After each run, it updates its belief about which regions
   of the search space are promising, then picks the next combination to try
  based on where it expects improvement. So instead of blindly searching, it
  learns from previous runs. Way more sample-efficient than grid or random.

  All three are just structured brute force though. The network itself doesn't
  know what architecture it should be — you're running an outer loop of
  experimentation around it.

  For your digit recognizer, you could literally write a loop in train.mjs that
  tries 20 different architectures and prints the accuracy for each. That's grid
   search.

❯ HOw do you know the accuracy?                                                 

⏺ You already do it in your code. Look at train.mjs:227-235:

  evaluate(images, labels) {
      let correct = 0;
      for (let i = 0; i < images.length; i++) {
        const { activations } = this.forward(images[i]);
        const output = activations[activations.length - 1];
        const prediction = output.indexOf(Math.max(...output));
        if (prediction === labels[i]) correct++;
      }
      return correct / images.length;
    }

  You run the trained network on the 10,000 test images it has never seen during
   training, check how many it gets right, divide by total. That's your
  accuracy.

  The key is the test set is separate from the training set. You train on 60K
  images, evaluate on 10K different images. If you measured accuracy on the
  training data, the network could just memorize every example and score 100%
  while being useless on new inputs. The test set tells you if it actually
  learned generalizable patterns.

  This is why your MNIST data has two separate files — train-images and
  t10k-images. That split is the entire mechanism for knowing whether your
  network actually works.

❯ HOw do you know the accuracy? Liek what is the measurment metric              

⏺ You already have it in your code. Look at train.mjs:227-235:

  evaluate(images, labels) {
      let correct = 0;
      for (let i = 0; i < images.length; i++) {
        const { activations } = this.forward(images[i]);
        const output = activations[activations.length - 1];
        const prediction = output.indexOf(Math.max(...output));
        if (prediction === labels[i]) correct++;
      }
      return correct / images.length;
  }

  It runs every test image through the network, checks if the predicted digit
  matches the actual label, and divides correct count by total. That's accuracy
  — just "what percentage did it get right."

  The key thing is it's evaluated on test data the network never trained on.
  That's the 10K test images vs the 60K training images. If you measured
  accuracy on the training data, a network that just memorized everything would
  score 100% but be useless on new inputs.

  For your digit recognizer, accuracy works fine because the classes are
  balanced (roughly equal number of each digit 0-9). For the trading network it
  gets trickier — if the market goes up 60% of days and your network just always
   predicts "up," it gets 60% accuracy while being completely useless. In that
  case you'd want metrics like precision/recall or profit/loss on a simulated
  backtest. But the fundamental idea is the same: hold out data the network
  hasn't seen, run predictions, measure how often it's right.

❯ i had ai create this so i dont know                                           

⏺ That's fine — that's why you're asking questions. You're learning the right
  things by interrogating how it works rather than just accepting the output.

  The important takeaway from that function: you split your data into two sets.
  Train on one, measure on the other. That's the entire concept. If you measure
  on the same data you trained on, the score is meaningless because the network
  could just be memorizing.

  Is there something specific about the project you want to understand better,
  or did you want to start building something with it?

❯ Teh metric, whats its referred to as                                          

⏺ Test accuracy. Or more generally, the loss function is what the network is
  trying to minimize during training, and accuracy is the human-readable metric
  you check after.

  In your network the loss is implicitly mean squared error — the
  (activations[L+1][j] - target[j]) term in the backprop. The network adjusts
  weights to shrink that difference. Accuracy is just the downstream measurement
   of how often the argmax prediction matches the label.

❯ Hmm, now i have another question, is there a way to somehow make it be able   
  to accept varying data? Liek data of any size? and what that means to me is   
  like would this mean we basically jsut provide more OHLC data to it           
  essentailly?                                                                  

⏺ No — a standard feedforward network like yours needs a fixed input size. The
  weights are literally a matrix of fixed dimensions. Your digit net has 784×16
  weights in the first layer — it can't suddenly accept 785 inputs.

  But there are architectures designed for variable-length sequences:

  RNNs (Recurrent Neural Networks) — process one input at a time and carry a
  hidden state forward. So you'd feed it candle 1, it updates its state, then
  candle 2, updates again, etc. Doesn't matter if it's 10 candles or 500. Each
  step uses the same weights.

  Transformers — what GPT/Claude are built on. They use attention to let every
  element in the sequence look at every other element. Also handles variable
  length.

  Both of these are significantly more complex than what you built. Your digit
  recognizer is a feedforward net — data goes in one direction, fixed size in,
  fixed size out. RNNs and transformers add the concept of sequence — processing
   ordered data one step at a time or all at once with positional encoding.

  For the trading use case though, honestly — fixed input size is fine. You'd
  just define "I always feed it the last 20 candles" and that's your window. It
  slides forward each day. You don't really need variable length input for that
  problem. The question isn't "how many candles can I feed it" but "which
  candles and what features per candle actually carry signal."

❯ Damn this has me thinking about the capacciblities of like just hte simple    
  neural network, it feels like the core problem at this point is just defining 
   what the input should be                                                     

⏺ Exactly. The network is just math — it'll find patterns in whatever you give
  it if patterns exist. The architecture is a solved-ish problem. The real
  questions are:

  1. What data do you feed it — which features, what timeframe, how much history
  2. What are you asking it to predict — the label definition
  3. Is there actually a learnable pattern in that data — this is the big one

  Number 3 is why trading is hard. With MNIST, the pattern objectively exists —
  a 3 looks like a 3 every time. With markets, the signal might not be there at
  all in the data you chose, or it might be there but so faint that noise drowns
   it out, or it might exist temporarily then disappear.

  But yeah — the neural network itself is the easy part. Defining the problem
  correctly is the entire game.

❯ Wait a second, so question so like the question you would be asking the       
  network is like what is like given this data, what is the probability that    
  the price will go up, wait a second a random thought jsut hit my brain, im    
  wondeirng if the idea is like you are just asking the network, given this     
  input what is the output? A tthe core thats what it is, and its like perhaps  
  the idea is liek it feels liek maybe the diea is like "given this input data  
  like for exmaple these candles and this volume and maybe other factors,       
  within X defined timframe of time, what is the probabiltiy that the outuput   
  will be..." and then its like, you define what output you want but i feel     
  like specifically the idea is to define like maybe many different scenarios   
  like what is the probablitiy that the price will hit go to price Y first,     
  whilst not hitting price X? (and this would be the eequivalent of asking like 
   a 2:1 risk to reward or something like that. or liek what are the chances    
  that: 1. it goes up this amount of pips 2. it does so without going down this 
   amount of pips and 3. it does so in X amount of time) and then I woudl think 
   the idea is that you would get a confidence score from this? And I feel like 
   the idea is that, you jsut run this on a bunch of different scenarios, with  
  slightly different parameters, liek for example maybe you define some certain 
   pair, a defined time range, and then like the question I just asked with     
  those conditions, then you train and see what the result is, but then i feel  
  liek the idea is to also maybe do the same exact thign but jsut tweak the     
  question your asking slightly, like maybe its a lower amount of pips to hit,  
  maybe for th efirst scenario you were asking what the chances were that, if   
  you gave it the input for the current whole forex day, which starts at        
  5pm/6pm eastern standard, and then say it has from like that all the way up   
  to 7:59am and then you ask, ok from now, 7:59am, till the end of the forex    
  day, what is the probability that the price goes up 10 pips, and does so      
  before coming down 5 pips, before the end of the trading day (5pm/6pm)? its   
  like I feel liek the diea is to ask it that, then to do it again but maybe    
  change one single parameter like ok  what are the chances that it deos that   
  smae exact thing but this time it does so before coming down 10 pips instead  
  of 5 pips, and then continously like doing this again and again and again,    
  and changing different parameters each and every time basically, like imagein 
   your shift the time by 1 minute forward and ask the same questions but just  
  keep shifting the time forward, I cant tell mif my thinking is correct in     
  this but then I feel like then its liek your going to be evaluating a lot of  
  different case scenarios bascially, but then the idea is to look for hte ones 
   wehre the confidence is the most highest essentially? ANd those are the ones 
   you tradfe on?                                                               

❯ Wait a second, so question so like the question you would be asking the       
  network is like what is like given this data, what is the probability that    
  the price will go up, wait a second a random thought jsut hit my brain, im    
  wondeirng if the idea is like you are just asking the network, given this     
  input what is the output? A tthe core thats what it is, and its like perhaps  
  the idea is liek it feels liek maybe the diea is like "given this input data  
  like for exmaple these candles and this volume and maybe other factors,       
  within X defined timframe of time, what is the probabiltiy that the outuput   
  will be..." and then its like, you define what output you want but i feel     
  like specifically the idea is to define like maybe many different scenarios   
  like what is the probablitiy that the price will hit go to price Y first,     
  whilst not hitting price X? (and this would be the eequivalent of asking like 
   a 2:1 risk to reward or something like that. or liek what are the chances    
  that: 1. it goes up this amount of pips 2. it does so without going down this 
   amount of pips and 3. it does so in X amount of time) and then I woudl think 
   the idea is that you would get a confidence score from this? And I feel like 
   the idea is that, you jsut run this on a bunch of different scenarios, with  
  slightly different parameters, liek for example maybe you define some certain 
   pair, a defined time range, and then like the question I just asked with     
  those conditions, then you train and see what the result is, but then i feel  
  liek the idea is to also maybe do the same exact thign but jsut tweak the     
  question your asking slightly, like maybe its a lower amount of pips to hit,  
  maybe for th efirst scenario you were asking what the chances were that, if   
  you gave it the input for the current whole forex day, which starts at        
  5pm/6pm eastern standard, and then say it has from like that all the way up   
  to 7:59am and then you ask, ok from now, 7:59am, till the end of the forex    
  day, what is the probability that the price goes up 10 pips, and does so      
  before coming down 5 pips, before the end of the trading day (5pm/6pm)? its   
  like I feel liek the diea is to ask it that, then to do it again but maybe    
  change one single parameter like ok  what are the chances that it deos that   
  smae exact thing but this time it does so before coming down 10 pips instead  
  of 5 pips, and then continously like doing this again and again and again,    
  and changing different parameters each and every time basically, like imagein 
   your shift the time by 1 minute forward and ask the same questions but just  
  keep shifting the time forward, I cant tell mif my thinking is correct in     
  this but then I feel like then its liek your going to be evaluating a lot of  
  different case scenarios bascially, but then the idea is to look for hte ones 
   wehre the confidence is the most highest essentially? like it seems like     
  essetnially you need to define some threshold at which if the confidence is   
  over it you trade? ANd those are the ones you tradfe on?                      

⏺ Yeah, your thinking is correct. Let me break down what you just described
  because you basically arrived at the full framework:

  The core idea: The network is just answering "given this input, what's the
  probability of this specific outcome?" That's it. Same as "given these pixels,
   what's the probability this is a 3?"

  What you're describing is essentially:

  1. Define a very specific scenario with concrete parameters:
    - Pair: EUR/USD
    - Input: all candles from session open (5pm EST) to 8:00am
    - Question: does price hit +10 pips before hitting -5 pips, before session
  close?
    - Label: yes (1) or no (0)

  2
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

❯ Wait a second, so question so like the question you would be asking the       
  network is like what is like given this data, what is the probability that    
  the price will go up, wait a second a random thought jsut hit my brain, im    
  wondeirng if the idea is like you are just asking the network, given this     
  input what is the output? A tthe core thats what it is, and its like perhaps  
  the idea is liek it feels liek maybe the diea is like "given this input data  
  like for exmaple these candles and this volume and maybe other factors,       
  within X defined timframe of time, what is the probabiltiy that the outuput   
  will be..." and then its like, you define what output you want but i feel     
  like specifically the idea is to define like maybe many different scenarios   
  like what is the probablitiy that the price will hit go to price Y first,     
  whilst not hitting price X? (and this would be the eequivalent of asking like 
   a 2:1 risk to reward or something like that. or liek what are the chances    
  that: 1. it goes up this amount of pips 2. it does so without going down this 
   amount of pips and 3. it does so in X amount of time) and then I woudl think 
   the idea is that you would get a confidence score from this? And I feel like 
   the idea is that, you jsut run this on a bunch of different scenarios, with  
  slightly different parameters, liek for example maybe you define some certain 
   pair, a defined time range, and then like the question I just asked with     
  those conditions, then you train and see what the result is, but then i feel  
  liek the idea is to also maybe do the same exact thign but jsut tweak the     
  question your asking slightly, like maybe its a lower amount of pips to hit,  
  maybe for th efirst scenario you were asking what the chances were that, if   
  you gave it the input for the current whole forex day, which starts at        
  5pm/6pm eastern standard, and then say it has from like that all the way up   
  to 7:59am and then you ask, ok from now, 7:59am, till the end of the forex    
  day, what is the probability that the price goes up 10 pips, and does so      
  before coming down 5 pips, before the end of the trading day (5pm/6pm)? its   
  like I feel liek the diea is to ask it that, then to do it again but maybe    
  change one single parameter like ok  what are the chances that it deos that   
  smae exact thing but this time it does so before coming down 10 pips instead  
  of 5 pips, and then continously like doing this again and again and again,    
  and changing different parameters each and every time basically, like imagein 
   your shift the time by 1 minute forward and ask the same questions but just  
  keep shifting the time forward, I cant tell mif my thinking is correct in     
  this but then I feel like then its liek your going to be evaluating a lot of  
  different case scenarios bascially, but then the idea is to look for hte ones 
   wehre the confidence is the most highest essentially? like it seems like     
  essetnially you need to define some threshold at which if the confidence is   
  over it you trade? ANd those are the ones you tradfe on?                      

⏺ Your thinking is fundamentally correct. You just described how quantitative
  trading firms actually approach this. Let me confirm each piece:

  The core idea — yes. A neural network is literally just: given input, what's
  the probability of each output? That's all it does. You define the question by
   choosing your inputs and labels.

  The specific scenario framing — yes. You're describing a well-defined trade
  setup:
  - Input: candle data from 5pm to 7:59am
  - Output: probability that price hits +10 pips before hitting -5 pips before
  5pm

  That's a clean, binary label you can compute from historical data. For every
  past trading day, you can look and say "did this happen? yes or no." That
  becomes your training label.

  Sweeping parameters — yes. You'd train separate models (or evaluate the same
  model) across variations:
  - +10 pips before -5 pips (2:1 reward/risk)
  - +10 pips before -10 pips (1:1)
  - +15 pips before -5 pips (3:1)
  - Same questions but entry at 8:30am instead of 8:00am
  - Same questions but on EUR/USD vs GBP/USD
  - etc.

  Each is a distinct, well-defined question with a verifiable historical answer.

  Trading only high confidence — yes, but with a big caveat. This is where it
  gets tricky. The network outputs a number between 0 and 1 (your sigmoid
  output). But that number is not necessarily a calibrated probability. When the
   network says 0.85, that doesn't mean there's an 85% chance. It means the
  network is relatively more activated for that output. You'd need to verify
  through backtesting: "every time the network output was above 0.8, what
  actually happened?" If the win rate in those cases is genuinely high on data
  the network never saw, then you have something.

  The real danger with your sweep approach: if you test 1000 different parameter
   combinations and pick the one that looks best, you might just be finding
  noise. This is called overfitting to the search space. Out of 1000 random
  scenarios, some will look profitable by pure chance. You'd need to:

  1. Train on data from, say, 2015-2022
  2. Pick your best scenarios based on that
  3. Test them on 2023-2025 data that was never touched
  4. If they still work on that untouched data, maybe you have something real

  But yeah — your mental model of "define a concrete question, train, evaluate
  confidence, sweep parameters, only act on high confidence" is exactly the
  right framework. The concept is sound. The difficulty is in whether the signal
   actually exists in the data.
✻ Cooked for 31s
  ⎿  Branched conversation. You are now in the branch.
     To resume the original: claude -r 8e401356-8a82-45b3-855a-0d5937b69c4d

❯ See but how do you deteremine if a scenario is random or not random? how do   
  you mitigate against that? How do you prevent that? I cant tell if this is    
  right but what I was thinking was what if you just include more data, but it  
  would be "any data that might be relevant to swaying price" I feel like is    
  the idea to shoot for, like for example what if along with exactly those      
  scenarios I descibred, in addition to just the sole OHLC price data from      
  5pm/6pm to 7:59am, for a single pair, you also added in like, other things    
  like current interest rate, current jobs, basically like any and potentially  
  all forex factory data, and then se i was trying to account for things like   
  well how do oyu account for like for more randomness and I was trying to look 
   at like other past scenarios where things were seemingly random or           
  something, but if theere was any eventual reason behind them, like maybe      
  housing data, or perhaps like imagine you also included the OHLC of other     
  pairs as well, and like im tyring to think like what if you also inlcuded     
  things like, maybe month? or date? or day of the week? or week number? and    
  day number? like the date but split up like this? and  altohugh its silly but 
   like even things like has the president tweeted in the past number 24 hours? 
   Is the current president republican or democrat? I jsut feel like anything   
  that could potentially sway the price, if you can quantify/catagorize that,   
  could be helpful, like it seems liek it coudl be potentially beneificial if   
  you could encode "sentiment" somehow which requires defining what it is       
  bascailly.  I could even see the scenario where you maybe take it further and 
   start training networks on what sentiment creates market movements for       
  example, like basically the presedent tweeted at this time, what happened ot  
  the price at this time or something like that?                                

⏺ You
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

❯ /branch 

❯ See but how do you deteremine if a scenario is random or not random? how do   
  you mitigate against that? How do you prevent that? I cant tell if this is    
  right but what I was thinking was what if you just include more data, but it  
  would be "any data that might be relevant to swaying price" I feel like is    
  the idea to shoot for, like for example what if along with exactly those      
  scenarios I descibred, in addition to just the sole OHLC price data from      
  5pm/6pm to 7:59am, for a single pair, you also added in like, other things    
  like current interest rate, current jobs, basically like any and potentially  
  all forex factory data, and then se i was trying to account for things like   
  well how do oyu account for like for more randomness and I was trying to look 
   at like other past scenarios where things were seemingly random or           
  something, but if theere was any eventual reason behind them, like maybe      
  housing data, or perhaps like imagine you also included the OHLC of other     
  pairs as well, and like im tyring to think like what if you also inlcuded     
  things like, maybe month? or date? or day of the week? or week number? and    
  day number? like the date but split up like this? and  altohugh its silly but 
   like even things like has the president tweeted in the past number 24 hours? 
   Is the current president republican or democrat? I jsut feel like anything   
  that could potentially sway the price, if you can quantify/catagorize that,   
  could be helpful, like it seems liek it coudl be potentially beneificial if   
  you could encode "sentiment" somehow which requires defining what it is       
  bascailly.  I could even see the scenario where you maybe take it further and 
   start training networks on what sentiment creates market movements for       
  example, like basically the presedent tweeted at this time, what happened ot  
  the price at this time or something like that?                                

⏺ You're thinking about this the right way. More relevant features can help the
  network distinguish signal from noise — if two days have identical OHLC
  patterns but one has an FOMC announcement and the other doesn't, the network
  can't tell them apart unless you give it that information.

  But there's a tradeoff you need to understand:

  More features is not automatically better. Every feature you add increases the
   input size, which means the network needs more weights, which means it needs
  more training data to learn properly. If you have 500 input features but only
  2,000 trading days of data, the network has way more parameters than examples
  — it will memorize the training data perfectly and be useless on new data.
  This is the curse of dimensionality.

  So how do you actually prevent finding fake patterns?

  The primary defense is what I mentioned — hold out data. But more
  specifically:

  1. Train/validation/test split. Train on 2015-2020. Use 2021-2022 to pick your
   best model and parameters (validation). Then test on 2023-2025 which you
  never touched during any decision-making. If it works on that final set, the
  pattern is less likely to be random.
  2. Out-of-sample consistency. If a scenario only works on EUR/USD but not on
  any other pair, or only works in 2019 but no other year, it's probably noise.
  Real patterns tend to show up across related instruments and time periods.
  3. The features need a plausible mechanism. This is where your instinct is
  actually good — you're not randomly throwing data at it, you're thinking about
   why something might matter. Interest rates affect currency value. NFP moves
  forex. Presidential tweets move markets. Those have causal reasoning behind
  them. That's better than adding random features and hoping the network figures
   it out.

  On your specific feature ideas:

  - OHLC of correlated pairs — good idea. DXY moves affect all USD pairs.
  EUR/USD and GBP/USD are correlated. The network could learn cross-pair
  relationships.
  - Economic calendar data (NFP, CPI, FOMC dates) — very relevant. Markets
  behave completely differently on NFP day vs a random Tuesday.
  - Day of week, month, etc. — actually useful. Markets have known seasonality
  (thin liquidity on Fridays, month-end rebalancing flows, etc.)
  - Interest rates — directly drives forex pricing. Carry trade is a real thing.
  - "Has the president tweeted" — the idea is right, but encoding it is hard.
  You'd need some way to quantify it (count of tweets? sentiment score? binary
  flag?).

  On the sentiment idea: you're basically describing what NLP (natural language
  processing) pipelines do. People do exactly this — run a language model on
  news headlines or tweets, output a sentiment score between -1 and +1, then
  feed that number into a trading model as one of the input features. That's a
  real approach people use. But it's essentially building a second neural
  network to produce one input feature for your first neural network.

  The core answer to "how do you know it's not random": you can never be 100%
  certain. You use held-out data, you check consistency across time periods and
  instruments, and you make sure the features have logical reasons to matter. If
   after all that it still works, it's probably real — but markets change, and a
   pattern that worked for 5 years can stop working tomorrow. That's the
  fundamental risk that no amount of data prevents.

❯ And at that point what do you do? HOw is it such though that these "trading   
  companies/firms" can somehow continue to operate thouhg? like have they found 
   thigns that jsut continue to work consistnetly?                              

⏺ A few things:

  They don't rely on one model. A firm like Renaissance or Two Sigma isn't
  running a single neural network. They're running hundreds or thousands of
  strategies simultaneously. Any individual strategy might stop working — and
  they do, constantly. They retire dead strategies and develop new ones all the
  time. The firm survives because the portfolio of strategies is diversified.
  Some die, new ones are born. It's a constant churn.

  Many of their edges aren't prediction at all. A lot of quant firm profit comes
   from things like:

  - Market making — they don't predict direction, they just sit on both sides of
   the bid/ask spread and collect the difference millions of times a day. The
  edge is speed and inventory management, not forecasting.
  - Arbitrage — the same asset is priced differently on two exchanges for a
  fraction of a second. No prediction needed, just speed.
  - Statistical arbitrage — two correlated assets diverge slightly, you bet on
  convergence. The pattern is structural, not predictive.

  These are more about infrastructure and speed than about having a magic model.

  The ones that do predict are playing a different game than retail. They have:

  - Decades of tick-level data across every instrument
  - Alternative data you can't get — satellite imagery of parking lots, credit
  card transaction flows, shipping container movements
  - Hundreds of PhDs constantly iterating
  - Millions in compute
  - And even then, their edge per trade is tiny. They're not predicting with 80%
   confidence. They're predicting with like 51% confidence but doing it a
  million times a day — the law of large numbers turns a tiny edge into
  consistent profit.

  They do still blow up sometimes. Long-Term Capital Management collapsed. Quant
   funds had a massive drawdown in August 2007. Renaissance's public funds have
  underperformed. The Medallion Fund (Renaissance's internal fund) is the famous
   exception — but it's one fund, run by arguably the most talented team ever
  assembled, and even they won't explain how it works.

  The honest answer: most firms that rely purely on predictive models for
  medium-term price direction struggle or fail. The ones that survive long-term
  tend to have structural edges (speed, data access, market making) rather than
  purely "we predict where price goes next." The pure prediction game is the
  hardest version of this problem, which is what you'd be attempting with a
  neural network.

  That doesn't mean it's impossible — it means the bar is extremely high, and
  the edge, if it exists, will be small and temporary.

❯  who is The Medallion Fund                                                    

⏺ It's Renaissance Technologies' internal fund, started by Jim Simons
  (mathematician, former NSA codebreaker, died in 2024). It's widely considered
  the most successful investment fund in history.

  The numbers: [UNVERIFIED, from training data] roughly 66% average annual
  returns before fees from 1988 to ~2018. For context, the S&P 500 averages
  about 10%. No fund comes close.

  Why it's relevant to what you're building:

  - Simons didn't come from finance. He was a math/physics guy who hired
  mathematicians, physicists, and computer scientists — not traders. The entire
  thesis was "patterns exist in market data, and math can find them."
  - They used statistical models, not fundamental analysis. They weren't reading
   earnings reports — they were looking at data patterns, which is conceptually
  what you're describing.
  - The fund is closed. Only employees can invest in it. Their public-facing
  funds (RIEF, RIDA) performed significantly worse, which suggests the edge is
  capacity-constrained — it only works at a certain scale.

  Why nobody can replicate it:

  - Nobody outside the firm knows what they actually do. Employees sign strict
  NDAs.
  - They've had 30+ years of iterating on models with the best talent in the
  world.
  - It's likely not one thing — it's probably thousands of small edges stacked
  together.

  The takeaway for you: the fact that Simons proved statistical patterns exist
  in market data is encouraging. The fact that it took one of the greatest
  mathematicians alive plus hundreds of PhDs plus decades of work to exploit
  them consistently tells you how hard the execution is.

❯ He died?                                                                      

⏺ Yeah, May 2024. He was 86.

❯ Oh wait he smoked?                                                            

⏺ I'm not certain about that. I don't have reliable information on whether Jim
  Simons smoked. Do you want me to look it up?

❯ Yes                                                                           

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=Jim+Simons+smok
      ing+smoker&count=20' \
        -H 'Accept: application/json' \…)
  ⎿  [
       {
         "siteName": "www.bozemandailychronicle.com",
     … +127 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Yeah, he was a lifelong chain smoker. Started at 14, never stopped. Smoked
  Merit cigarettes.

  He was famously unapologetic about it too — he'd smoke during investor
  presentations, once put out a cigarette in a sheet cake when he couldn't find
  an ashtray, reportedly paid fines to smoke inside buildings, and supposedly
  spent $150M on a building partly so he could smoke in it without anyone
  telling him to stop. (https://dealbreaker.com/2024/05/jim-simons-headed-to-the
  -great-big-smoking-section-in-the-sky,
  https://x.com/quant_arb/status/1631052354408665091)

  Multiple sources note he beat the actuarial odds by making it to 86 as a
  lifelong smoker. (https://scottaaronson.blog/?p=7996,
  https://www.science.org/content/article/researchers-reflect-death-billionaire-
  science-donor-jim-simons-and-his-charitable)

❯  If you have 500 input                                                        
    features but only 2,000 trading days of data, the network has way more      
  parameters than examples — it will                                            
    memorize the training data perfectly and be useless on new data. is this a  
  concept? is there like a speciic ratio that you want thats idea or something? 

❯ If you have 500 input                                                         
    features but only 2,000 trading days of data, the network has way more      
  parameters than examples — it will                                            
    memorize the training data perfectly and be useless on new data. is this a  
  concept? is there like a speciic ratio that you want thats ideal or           
  something?                                                                    

⏺ The concept is called overfitting, and the specific problem of having more
  parameters than examples is sometimes called being overparameterized.

  There's no universal ideal ratio, but the general rule of thumb is you want
  significantly more training examples than parameters. Your digit recognizer
  has:

  - 784×16 + 16×16 + 16×10 = 12,960 weights plus biases
  - 60,000 training examples
  - Roughly a 5:1 ratio of examples to parameters

  For a trading network with 500 inputs and one hidden layer of 16 neurons,
  you'd have 500×16 + 16×10 = 8,160 parameters. With 2,000 trading days, that's
  a 0.25:1 ratio — way less data than parameters. The network can essentially
  just memorize each day.

  Ways people deal with this when data is limited:

  - Fewer features — only include the ones you have strong reason to believe
  matter, don't throw everything in hoping
  - Smaller network — fewer hidden neurons means fewer parameters
  - Regularization — penalize large weights during training so the network can't
   overfit as aggressively (L1/L2 regularization, dropout)
  - More data — use shorter timeframe candles (1-minute instead of daily), more
  pairs, more years of history

  But there's no magic number like "you need exactly 10x." It depends on the
  complexity of the pattern you're trying to learn. A simple linear relationship
   needs very few examples. A complex nonlinear one needs many more. You find
  out empirically by checking whether your test accuracy is close to your
  training accuracy. If training accuracy is 95% but test accuracy is 50%,
  you're overfitting.

❯   - 784×16 + 16×16 + 16×10 = 12,960 weights plus biases                       
                                                                                
    - 60,000 training examples                                                  
    - Roughly a 5:1 ratio of examples to parameters                             
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
    For a trading network with 500 inputs and one hidden layer of 16 neurons,   
  you'd have 500×16 + 16×10 = 8,160                                             
    parameters. With 2,000 trading days, that's a 0.25:1 ratio — way less data  
  than parameters. The network can                                              
    essentially just memorize each day.  Wait in this actual example like what  
  would the inputs be? What would the 500 inputs be for example?                

⏺ I was using 500 as a hypothetical based on what you were describing — if you
  actually encoded everything you listed, it'd look something like:

  - OHLC from 5pm to 8am in 15-minute candles = ~60 candles × 4 values = 240 
  inputs
  - Volume per candle = 60 more
  - OHLC of 5 correlated pairs for the same window = 240 × 5 = 1,200 (this alone
   blows past 500)
  - Current interest rates for major currencies = ~8
  - Day of week (one-hot encoded, 5 trading days) = 5
  - Month (one-hot) = 12
  - Week number = 1
  - Recent economic releases (NFP, CPI, etc. — binary flags or values) = ~20
  - President party = 1
  - Presidential tweet activity = 1
  - Sentiment score = 1

  That's already way over 500. And this is the problem — the feature list grows
  fast, but you only get ~252 trading days per year. Even 10 years of data is
  only 2,520 days.

  So you'd have to make hard choices about what to actually include. Maybe you
  skip the correlated pairs. Maybe instead of 60 candles of raw OHLC you
  compress the session into a few summary statistics — session high, session
  low, open-to-current range, average volume. That might be 10 inputs instead of
   300.

  This is why feature selection matters as much as the network itself. Every
  input you add costs you in terms of how much data you need to not overfit.

❯ ⏺ I was using 500 as a hypothetical based on what you were describing — if    
  you actually encoded everything you                                           
    listed, it'd look something like:                                           
                                                                                
                                                                                
    - OHLC from 5pm to 8am in 15-minute candles = ~60 candles × 4 values = 240  
  inputs                                                                        
    - Volume per candle = 60 more                                               
                                                                                
    - OHLC of 5 correlated pairs for the same window = 240 × 5 = 1,200 (this    
  alone blows past 500)                                                         
    - Current interest rates for major currencies = ~8                          
                                                                                
    - Day of week (one-hot encoded, 5 trading days) = 5                         
                                                                                
    - Month (one-hot) = 12                                                      
                                                                                
    - Week number = 1                                                           
                                                                                
    - Recent economic releases (NFP, CPI, etc. — binary flags or values) = ~20  
                                                                                
    - President party = 1                                                       
                                                                                
    - Presidential tweet activity = 1                                           
                                                                                
    - Sentiment score = 1  Wait so if you had this then how much "data" would   
  you have?                                                                     

❯ ⏺ I was using 500 as a hypothetical based on what you were describing — if    
  you actually encoded everything you                                           
    listed, it'd look something like:                                           
                                                                                
                                                                                
    - OHLC from 5pm to 8am in 15-minute candles = ~60 candles × 4 values = 240  
  inputs                                                                        
    - Volume per candle = 60 more                                               
                                                                                
    - OHLC of 5 correlated pairs for the same window = 240 × 5 = 1,200 (this    
  alone blows past 500)                                                         
    - Current interest rates for major currencies = ~8                          
                                                                                
    - Day of week (one-hot encoded, 5 trading days) = 5                         
                                                                                
    - Month (one-hot) = 12                                                      
                                                                                
    - Week number = 1                                                           
                                                                                
    - Recent economic releases (NFP, CPI, etc. — binary flags or values) = ~20  
                                                                                
    - President party = 1                                                       
                                                                                
    - Presidential tweet activity = 1                                           
                                                                                
    - Sentiment score = 1  Wait so if you had this then how many parameters is  
  this and then also, for the data, how much "data" would you have?             

⏺ The inputs would be roughly 1,549 (adding those up).

  For a network shaped 1549 → 16 → 10:
  - 1549 × 16 + 16 × 10 = 24,784 + 160 = 24,944 weights (plus ~26 biases,
  negligible)

  For data: each trading day produces one training example. So:
  - 1 year = ~252 examples
  - 5 years = ~1,260
  - 10 years = ~2,520
  - 20 years = ~5,040

  You'd have a ratio of about 0.1:1 with 10 years of data (2,520 examples vs
  24,944 parameters). Massively overparameterized. The network would memorize
  the training data.

  To get to even a 5:1 ratio like your digit recognizer, you'd need ~125,000
  examples. At 252 days per year, that's ~496 years of daily data.

  That's why people either:
  - Drastically cut features (maybe 20-30 total instead of 1,500)
  - Use shorter timeframes to get more examples (1-minute candles give ~350,000+
   candles per year, but then you're asking a different question)
  - Use regularization to constrain the network despite the imbalance

  This is the fundamental tension with daily forex data — you have rich feature
  ideas but very few independent examples per year.

✻ Baked for 33s

❯ Wait so with 1 year of data is would 252 examples vs 24,944 parameters?       
  ultrathink                                                                    

⏺ Yeah. 252 examples vs ~24,970 parameters. The network has roughly 100x more 
  knobs to tune than it has examples to learn from. It could assign dedicated
  parameters to memorize each individual day and still have parameters left
  over. It wouldn't learn any pattern — it would just memorize.

  To put it in perspective with your digit recognizer: imagine if instead of
  60,000 training images you only had 130. The network would just memorize
  "image #47 is a 3" instead of learning what a 3 looks like. That's the
  equivalent situation.

❯ " To put it in perspective with your digit recognizer: imagine if instead of  
  60,000 training images you only had                                           
    130." Ok i see completly what you mean now, ok i see this makes way more    
  sense so this is the equivalent of if I had that grid of 784 pixel values,    
  then some weights and biases and then I only had an actual 130 images to      
  train it on? Like thats not eve for testing your saying if i jsut had         
  literally 130 to train it on?                                                 

⏺ Exactly. 130 total training images across 10 digit classes — so like 13
  examples of each digit. The network would just memorize "when the pixels look
  exactly like this specific image, output 3" rather than learning general
  patterns like curves and lines that make a 3 a 3. It would score near 100% on
  those 130 training images and completely fail on any new handwriting it hadn't
   seen.

  That's exactly what would happen with 252 trading days and 24,970 parameters.
  The network memorizes "on this specific day with these exact inputs, the price
   went up" rather than learning any generalizable pattern.

❯ Wow yeah I see exactly what you mean, in this case it seems like the only     
  optimal approach is to lower the timeframe to increase the amount of training 
   data,                                                                        

⏺ Right, that's the most straightforward lever. If you go from daily to 1-minute
   candles, you go from ~252 examples per year to ~350,000+. Suddenly the
  data-to-parameter ratio flips in your favor.

  But the tradeoff is you're now asking a different question. Instead of "what
  happens from 8am to end of day," you're asking "what happens in the next few
  minutes." The patterns at that timescale are different — you're in the
  territory of microstructure, spread noise, and slippage eating into any edge
  you find.

  There's a middle ground though. Something like 5-minute or 15-minute candles
  gives you tens of thousands of examples per year while still asking a question
   at a timescale where the moves are meaningful enough to trade on. You'd
  redefine the problem as something like "given the last 20 fifteen-minute
  candles, does price hit +5 pips before -3 pips in the next hour?" — and you'd
  have a new example every 15 minutes across the entire trading day.

❯ But wait a second if I decrease the timeframe I feel like there is also a     
  cost potenitally becuase i would potentially inherntly like increase the      
  amount of parameters because wait, a second, wouldnt I be also increasing the 
   amount of like cancldes in the input? wait what woudl I have to decrease the 
   timeframe of exactly? ultrathink                                             

⏺ Good catch — you're right to question this. There are two separate things you
  could change, and they have opposite effects:

  Option 1: Smaller candles in the same time window (BAD)
  Keep asking "5pm to 8am" but use 1-minute candles instead of 15-minute. Now
  instead of ~60 candles you have ~900 candles. That's 900 × 4 = 3,600 OHLC
  inputs instead of 240. You've massively increased parameters but you still
  only get one example per day. This makes the problem worse.

  Option 2: Sliding window with fixed candle count (GOOD)
  Keep the input as "the last 20 fifteen-minute candles" — always 20, always
  15-minute. That's 80 inputs, fixed. But instead of only asking the question
  once per day at 8am, you slide the window forward and ask it every 15 minutes
  throughout the day. Now every 15-minute interval is a new example. Same
  parameters, way more data.

  So the answer to "what do I decrease the timeframe of exactly" — it's the
  prediction frequency, not the candle resolution. You're not cramming more
  candles into the input. You're asking the same-shaped question more often by
  sliding the window forward.

  With option 2, 20 candles × 4 OHLC = 80 inputs. Network 80 → 16 → 3 = ~1,330
  parameters. And you get maybe 50+ examples per day × 252 days = ~12,600 per
  year. That's a ~9:1 ratio. Now you're in healthy territory.
❯ Wiat but im wondering if there is a different way to solve this               

⏺ What are you thinking?

❯ I dont know, im asking                                                        

⏺ Fair enough. There are a few other approaches:

  - Cut features aggressively — instead of 1,549 raw inputs, compute summary
  statistics. Replace 60 candles of OHLC with things like: session range,
  session direction, average volume, distance from session high. Compress 240
  inputs into maybe 10. Fewer parameters, same number of examples.
  - Regularization — add a penalty during training that punishes large weights.
  Forces the network to find simple solutions even when it has enough parameters
   to memorize. Dropout is another version — randomly disable neurons during
  training so it can't rely on memorizing specific pathways.
  - Data augmentation — create synthetic examples by adding small noise to
  existing data, similar to how people rotate/skew MNIST digits to get more
  training images. Controversial with financial data since you might be creating
   unrealistic examples.
  - Train across multiple pairs — if the pattern you're looking for is general
  (not pair-specific), train on EUR/USD, GBP/USD, AUD/USD, etc. all at once.
  Same parameters, 5-10x more examples.
  - Use a simpler model — a neural network might be overkill. Logistic
  regression with 20 features has 20 parameters. You could train that on 252
  days easily. Sometimes simpler wins.

  Which of those sounds most interesting to you?

❯ Hmm intersting, ok this comes down to the data you decide to put in it seems, 
   it seems it has to do with how you encode the data? ultrathink               

⏺ Yeah, that's the core insight. The exact same underlying data — price moving
  over time — can be encoded in totally different ways, and that choice changes
  everything:

  Raw encoding: 60 candles × 4 OHLC = 240 inputs. Preserves all the detail but
  costs you 240 parameters per hidden neuron.

  Compressed encoding: session high, session low, open, current price, average
  volume, range = 6 inputs. You've lost granularity (you don't know when during
  the session the high happened) but you've gone from 240 parameters to 6 per
  hidden neuron.

  Derived encoding: instead of raw prices, compute things like "how far is
  current price from session high as a percentage" or "what's the ratio of upper
   wick to body across the session." Now you're baking in domain knowledge about
   what might matter. Fewer inputs, but each one is more meaningful.

  Same data, three completely different problems for the network to solve. The
  first one needs massive data to learn. The second one might work with limited
  data but might miss important patterns. The third one is small AND
  information-rich, but depends on you knowing what features matter — which is
  essentially you doing part of the pattern recognition yourself and letting the
   network do the rest.

  This is actually why feature engineering used to be considered the most
  important part of machine learning. The model is just math. How you encode the
   input is where the human judgment goes.

❯ [Image #1] so question look at this, with regards to the cost of the          
  transactions this is what it looks like, I think the comission for the broker 
   is jsut the spread itself                                                    
  ⎿  [Image #1]

⏺ That's MetaTrader. So looking at your trade:

  - Buy EUR/USD at 1.17486, closed at 1.17489
  - Profit: $3.00 on 1 standard lot (100,000 units)
  - That's a 0.3 pip move in your favor

  The spread is your cost — the difference between bid and ask at entry. On
  EUR/USD it's typically around 1-2 pips depending on the broker and time of
  day. So on a 1 lot trade, the spread costs you roughly $10-20 before you even
  start.

  This matters for the neural network question because: if your model is
  predicting +10 pip moves, a 1-2 pip spread is manageable (10-20% cost). But if
   you go to lower timeframes to get more training data and start predicting +2
  pip moves, the spread eats 50-100% of your profit. The edge has to be large
  enough to survive the transaction cost.

  Is this a demo/sim account you're testing on?

❯ Its a demo I just needed to see the cost of the transactions, it seems the    
  spread tends to range from 0 to 4 on average, as i am looking at it now, it   
  looks like it averages at 2-3 roughly,                                        

⏺ Ok so 2-3 pips spread on EUR/USD. That's your baseline cost per trade. Any
  signal your network finds needs to overcome that before it's profitable.

  Going back to the scenario you described earlier — predicting a +10 pip move
  before a -5 pip stop — the spread effectively shifts your entry. You're really
   starting at -2.5 pips the moment you open the trade. So your +10 target is
  actually +12.5 pips of real movement needed, and your -5 stop gets hit at only
   -2.5 pips of adverse movement. Changes the risk/reward significantly.

  That's worth factoring into the label definition when training. You'd want to
  define your labels based on what actually needs to happen after spread, not
  the raw price movement.

❯ Right, i still need to analysze other instruments because I know the spread   
  cna change during diffferent hours, like for example during NYSE open the     
  spread of the  NAsdaq can become thinner, which is something to then consider 
   with the nueral network? Hmm now thinking about it, I would think we may     
  want to look a tthat as well like maybe trading during those hours, this has  
  me thinking about the parameteres to consider, and it keeps making me think   
  about like is it possible to somehow like its like i keep thinking about the  
  training of this network and its like im wondering if tis possible to         
  methodically approach like figuring out which setups work beest, its liek im  
  jsut rying ot think about this and the only thing I can envision is like      
  brute force testing multiple differnete scnearios, well first of all im       
  trying to understand like wel what is the quetsion i woudl be asking in the   
  first place, because before i had laid out a specific specenario which do you 
   rmemeber the scneario?                                                       

⏺ Yeah — you feed the network all the candle data from session open (5pm/6pm
  EST) to 7:59am, then ask: "from 8am to session close, does price hit +10 pips
  before hitting -5 pips?"

❯ Right exactly so consider that scneario and you create a modela nd train it   
  on that informatoin but lets say we can see eveyrthing for a moment, lets say 
   we are the universe we know everything already, and we know that, if you     
  were to do this for every minute up until 12:00pm, out of all those           
  scnearios, the one that contains the most high confidence setups actualyl     
  occur with those exact same parameters but at 8:59am. But see now lets go     
  back into the user who is creating this nueral networks perspective because   
  from their perspective they wont know that unless they test that right? (or   
  at least form my understanding thats what I thought?) And currently with my   
  knowldge of nueral networks, the only way I know to aquire that undersatnding 
   is to brute force test every single scenario for every minute from 7:59am to 
   12:00pm, but see would this take a while? and what im wondering is, is like  
  is there a methodical approach taht the user can take to instead some how     
  "converge"/arrive at the same discovery, that they would if they brute tested 
   every single minute and then discovered that 8:59am is the scenario where    
  the most high confidence signals occur, for that particular scenario where    
  the other paramteres stay static and the asking is the same, that is more     
  efficient/quicker?                                                            

⏺ Yeah, brute-forcing 241 separate models (one per minute from 7:59 to 12:00)
  would take a while. But there are smarter approaches:

  The cleanest solution: make entry time an input, not a separate model.

  Instead of training 241 different networks, train ONE network that takes entry
   time as an additional input feature. The network itself learns "at 8:59am
  with this data, confidence is high; at 8:15am with similar data, confidence is
   low." Then at inference time you just sweep the entry time input and see
  where the network outputs the highest confidence. One model instead of 241.

  This is the key insight — anything you were going to brute-force as a separate
   model, consider making it an input feature instead. The network does the work
   of figuring out which values matter.

  If you do need to search external parameters (things that change the model 
  structure, not just inputs):

  - Coarse-to-fine — test every 30 minutes first (8:00, 8:30, 9:00, ...). Find
  that the best region is 8:30-9:00. Then test every 5 minutes in that window.
  Then every minute. Maybe 20 runs instead of 241.
  - Bayesian optimization — what we talked about earlier. Test 5 random times,
  build a model of how accuracy varies with time, let it intelligently pick the
  next time to try. Converges on the optimum in maybe 15-20 runs.

  But seriously — option one is the real answer. If a parameter is continuous
  and can be encoded as a number, make it an input feature. Let the network
  learn it instead of you searching for it.

❯ I dont understand what do you mean?                                           

⏺ Ok so right now your plan was:

  - Train model A: entry at 7:59am → evaluate
  - Train model B: entry at 8:00am → evaluate
  - Train model C: entry at 8:01am → evaluate
  - ...241 separate models

  Instead, you train one model, but you add one more input neuron that
  represents the entry time. So if your input was 80 features (OHLC candles
  etc.), now it's 81 — the 81st input is just a number representing the time,
  like 0.0 for 7:59am, 0.5 for 10:00am, 1.0 for 12:00pm.

  Now every training example includes its entry time as part of the data. The
  network sees thousands of examples at various times throughout the morning and
   learns for itself: "when the time input is around 0.25 (roughly 8:59am) AND
  the candle data looks like X, the confidence is high."

  Then when you go to use it, you just feed it the current candle data plus the
  current time, and it tells you the confidence. You can run it at every minute
  and see where confidence peaks — but you didn't have to train 241 separate
  models. You trained one model that understands time as a variable.

  Same concept applies to anything else you were going to sweep — pip target,
  stop loss size, pair. Instead of training a separate model for each value,
  make it an input and let the network figure out which values matter.

❯ Does this mean it finds the most optimal setups itself?                       

⏺ Yes, essentially. You give it all the variables as inputs — time, candle data,
   pip target, whatever — and train it on all the historical outcomes. It learns
   which combinations produce the highest probability of the defined outcome.
  Then at inference time, you sweep different input combinations and the network
   tells you where confidence is highest.

  It's the same thing as your digit recognizer. You didn't train 10 separate
  networks — one for detecting 1s, one for detecting 2s, etc. You trained one
  network that takes pixels in and outputs confidence across all 10 digits
  simultaneously. The network figured out on its own which pixel patterns
  correspond to which digits.

  Same idea here. One network, many variables as inputs, it figures out which
  combinations matter.

❯ I dont understand then or like concious mind hasnt fully comprehended what    
  your describing and connected the dots, like what specifically would these    
  inputs look like?                                                             

⏺ Ok let me make it concrete. One training example would be a single row of
  numbers:

  [candle1_open, candle1_high, candle1_low, candle1_close,
   candle2_open, candle2_high, candle2_low, candle2_close,
   ...
   candle20_open, candle20_high, candle20_low, candle20_close,
   entry_time,
   pip_target,
   stop_loss]

  So if you used 20 candles of OHLC, that's 80 numbers, plus entry time (1
  number), plus pip target (1 number), plus stop loss (1 number) = 83 input
  neurons.

  And a single training example might look like:

  Inputs: [1.1748, 1.1752, 1.1745, 1.1750, ..., 0.25, 10, 5]
  Label:  1 (yes, price hit +10 pips before -5 pips)

  Another example from the same day but different parameters:

  Inputs: [1.1748, 1.1752, 1.1745, 1.1750, ..., 0.25, 15, 5]
  Label:  0 (no, price did NOT hit +15 pips before -5 pips)

  Same candle data, same time, but the pip target changed from 10 to 15, and the
   outcome was different. Both are valid training examples.

  And another from a different time on the same day:

  Inputs: [1.1760, 1.1763, 1.1758, 1.1761, ..., 0.50, 10, 5]
  Label:  1 (yes, it hit +10 before -5 from this later entry time)

  Different candle data because the window shifted forward, different time
  input, same pip target.

  So now from a single day you're not getting one training example — you're
  getting potentially hundreds, by varying the entry time and the pip target and
   the stop loss. And the network learns across all of them which combinations
  work.

❯ So its like a sliding window? Like willl the candle data input vary in terms  
  of the number of candles that go into the input?                              

⏺ No — the number of candles is always fixed. Always 20 (or whatever you
  choose). The window just slides forward in time.

  At 8:00am, the 20 most recent 15-minute candles are from 3:00am to 8:00am.

  At 8:15am, the 20 most recent 15-minute candles are from 3:15am to 8:15am.

  At 8:30am, they're from 3:30am to 8:30am.

  Same shape every time — always 20 candles, always 80 OHLC values. The window
  just moves forward. The oldest candle drops off, a new one enters. Like a
  conveyor belt.

  So the network always sees exactly 83 inputs (80 candle values + time + pip
  target + stop loss). The structure never changes. Only the values change.

❯ This means that you then have more data to train with right? like potentially 
   a lot more depending ont he time scale at which you do this and the number   
  of candles you choose to include? Because say for exmaple you were doing this 
   with minute data right, and say that you were sliding forward every single   
  minute, lets say you would realistically probably only want to do from hours  
  of like 1am, to maybe 12 pm or potentially a bit later lke 2 pm, liek woudnt  
  this increaes the amount of data you now have to work with?                   

⏺ Yeah exactly. If you slide forward every minute from 1am to 2pm, that's 780
  examples per day from a single pair. Multiply by 252 trading days and you have
   ~196,560 examples per year. Over 5 years that's nearly a million.

  Compare that to the 252 examples per year you had when you were only asking
  the question once per day at 8am. Massive difference.

  And that's just one pair. If you include EUR/USD, GBP/USD, USD/JPY, AUD/USD,
  NAS100 — multiply by 5. Now you're in the millions of examples territory with
  the same 83 input neurons and ~1,400 parameters. That's a very healthy ratio.

  This is exactly why the sliding window approach solves the data problem.
  You're not changing the network or the question — you're just asking the same
  question more often across more of the available data.

❯ That would be interesting to then see how when new news data comes out like   
  for example like CPI data, like say the last time it came out you had this:   
  [Image #2] then it comes out, and changes, and then seeing how different      
  changes along with certian price structures could produce different results   
  ⎿  [Image #2]

⏺ Right — so you'd encode that as additional inputs. For CPI specifically, there
   are really three meaningful numbers:

  - Actual: 0.9
  - Forecast: 1.0
  - Previous: 0.3

  But the most important value is probably the surprise — actual minus forecast.
   In this case 0.9 - 1.0 = -0.1. That's what moves markets. If CPI comes in
  exactly at forecast, price barely reacts. If it misses by a lot, big move.

  So you could encode CPI as just 3 extra inputs: actual, forecast, and
  surprise. Same for NFP, PPI, retail sales, FOMC — each event is a few numbers.
   And for days where no CPI was released, you'd just input the most recent
  values.

  What's interesting about your example is that actual (0.9%) was lower than
  forecast (1.0%) but way higher than previous (0.3%). Those are two competing
  signals — miss vs forecast but big jump vs last month. The network would learn
   across hundreds of CPI releases how different combinations of surprise +
  price structure play out. Something you couldn't eyeball from a single
  release, but a pattern might emerge across years of data.

❯ But going back, the entire idea is that the model could learn these things,   
  and we could still encode a lot of input data if we do teh sliding window     
  approach because it massively scales up the number of examples per day there  
  is to work with?                                                              

⏺ Yes. That's the whole point. The sliding window solves the data problem, which
   frees you to add more features without worrying about the
  parameter-to-example ratio. With ~200,000 examples per year per pair, you
  could have hundreds of input features and still maintain a healthy ratio.

❯ So you could actually encode the real OHLC values then? ANd you could         
  probably stuff more pairs as well? and possibly even longer time frames? ANd  
  if you want to scale the amount of examples you jsut increase the time? But   
  it doest still feel like thre is a limit but its higher                       

⏺ Yeah exactly. The limit is still there but it's way higher. You can afford:

  - More candles in the input (50 instead of 20)
  - More pairs as additional inputs
  - Higher timeframe candles alongside lower ones (like daily OHLC + the 15-min
  window)
  - Economic data (CPI, NFP, rates, all with actual/forecast/surprise)
  - Calendar features (day of week, month, session)

  And if you need more examples, you extend the training history. 5 years
  instead of 2. 10 pairs instead of 3. Slide every minute instead of every 15
  minutes.

  The limit you're sensing is real though — at some point you either run out of
  historical data that's still relevant (markets in 2010 behaved differently
  than 2025), or you add so many features that even a million examples isn't
  enough. But you're working in a much more comfortable range than the
  252-examples-per-year situation you started with. It's the difference between
  being mathematically impossible and being a real problem you could actually
  attempt.

❯ If the ratio is really high is this a good thing? like im trying to undertand 
   if a high ratio can ever bea  false indicator                                

⏺ Good question. Yes — a high ratio doesn't automatically mean the model is
  good. It just means the model has enough data to potentially learn. It
  prevents one specific failure mode (memorization) but doesn't prevent others.

  You could have a million examples and 100 parameters and the model still fails
   because:

  - The pattern doesn't exist — the data is genuinely random and there's nothing
   to learn. High ratio, plenty of data, but accuracy stays at ~50% because
  there's no signal.
  - The features are wrong — you're feeding it data that doesn't contain the
  information needed to predict the outcome. Like trying to predict EUR/USD from
   only the day of the week. Tons of data, but the input just doesn't relate to
  the output.
  - The pattern changed — it learns something real from 2015-2020 data, tests
  well on 2021, then fails in 2023 because the market regime shifted.

  A healthy ratio is a prerequisite, not a guarantee. It's like saying "I have
  enough paint to paint a house" — that doesn't mean the painting will look
  good. It just means you won't run out of paint halfway through.

  The real validation is always: does the model perform well on data it has
  never seen? If yes, something is working. If no, more data won't fix it — the
  problem is elsewhere.

❯ In order to counter this:   - The pattern changed — it learns something real  
  from 2015-2020 data, tests well on 2021, then                                 
    fails in 2023 because the market regime shifted.  I feel like and I cant    
  tell if this is the right thinking or not, but i feel like there is a way to  
  reduce the risk of this or at least somehow have the model account fo rthis   
  sort of thing but im not quite sure how? But is there a way? ultrathink       

⏺ Yeah there are a few ways:

  Rolling window retraining — This is the most straightforward. Instead of
  training once on 2015-2020 and deploying forever, you continuously retrain.
  You always train on the most recent N years of data. So in January 2024, you
  train on 2021-2023. In February 2024, you train on data that now includes
  January 2024, and the oldest month drops off. The model is always learning
  from the most recent market behavior. Old patterns that no longer work
  naturally fall out of the training data.

  Make the regime an input — This is the more interesting one. The reason
  patterns break is because the environment changes — volatility shifts,
  correlations between pairs change, interest rate cycles flip, etc. If you feed
   the model indicators of the current environment, it can learn "this candle
  pattern works when volatility is high and rates are rising, but not when
  volatility is low." So it's not learning one static pattern — it's learning
  conditional patterns. Things like:

  - Current VIX level
  - Recent average volatility (ATR over last 20 days)
  - Interest rate differential between the two currencies
  - Correlation between pairs over the last month
  - How far price is from the 200-day moving average

  Now instead of the model learning "pattern X = buy," it learns "pattern X +
  high volatility + rising rates = buy, but pattern X + low volatility + falling
   rates = no signal." The model adapts to the regime because you told it what
  regime it's in.

  Both combined is probably the most robust approach — retrain regularly on
  recent data AND include environment features as inputs. That way you get both:
   stale data drops off, and the model understands context.

  Your instinct is right. You can't prevent regimes from changing, but you can
  build a system that adapts to them rather than assuming the world is static.
❯ Wait a second could you also weight the time? like with more recent data      
  being more important? or does the model learn to do that itself? Or would you 
   have to do it? Like im asking if this is a thing and if its used in general? 
   and applicable to the tradinng nueral network? ultrathink                    

⏺ Yes, this is a real technique called sample weighting or temporal decay 
  weighting. It's used in practice, especially in financial ML, and it's
  directly applicable here.

  The model does NOT learn this itself. By default, every training example —
  whether from 2018 or yesterday — contributes equally to the weight updates
  during training. The network has no concept of "this example is more recent."
  You have to explicitly implement it.

  How it works mechanically: In your training loop, when you compute the loss
  for each example, you multiply it by a weight. Something like:

  - Example from 1 month ago: weight 1.0
  - Example from 1 year ago: weight 0.5
  - Example from 3 years ago: weight 0.1

  The decay could be exponential, linear, whatever you choose. The effect is
  that when the network does backpropagation, the gradients from recent examples
   push the weights harder than gradients from old examples. So the network's
  final state is more influenced by recent patterns.

  It's actually a softer version of the rolling window. Rolling window is binary
   — data is either included or cut off. Sample weighting is a gradient —
  everything is included but older data has less influence. Arguably better
  because old data might still contain useful patterns that persist across
  regimes, they just don't dominate the learning.

  Looking at your training code in train.mjs, this would be a small change. In
  the backprop accumulation loop where you sum up gradients for the mini-batch,
  you'd multiply each example's gradient by its time-based weight before adding
  it to the accumulator. A few lines of code.

  So to answer your question directly: yes it's a thing, yes it's used, the
  model won't do it on its own, and you'd implement it yourself.

❯ Wait so with this sliding window approach the inputs you could vary are what? 

⏺ The inputs you'd have per example:

  Candle data (fixed window, slides forward):
  - Last N candles of OHLC + volume for the primary pair
  - Last N candles of OHLC for correlated pairs

  Time/calendar:
  - Entry time
  - Day of week
  - Month
  - Day of month

  Trade parameters:
  - Pip target
  - Stop loss

  Economic data:
  - Latest CPI actual, forecast, surprise
  - Latest NFP actual, forecast, surprise
  - Latest interest rates per currency
  - Any other forex factory data (PPI, retail sales, FOMC, etc.)

  Regime/environment:
  - Current volatility (ATR)
  - VIX
  - Correlation between pairs over recent window
  - Distance from key moving averages

  Output (label):
  - Did price hit the pip target before hitting the stop loss within the time
  window? Yes/no.

  Everything above is a number that goes into the input. The network takes all
  of them in, and outputs a confidence. The sliding window gives you a new
  example every time you slide forward, with the candle data and time changing,
  while things like CPI and interest rates stay the same until they update.

❯ Wait a second so with this:   Trade parameters:                               
                                                                                
    - Pip target                                                                
                                                                                
    - Stop loss   does this mean you could then see, once the mdoel is trained, 
   and once you have tested it, and then I suppose you would need to test       
  different like case scenarios? to actually get a valid "predicatblitiy"       
  number, but then would this mean once that is all done, at any given moment   
  in time on the chart, you could calculate and see like the probabrility all   
  at once, of differenet scenarios in real time? Like essentialyl what is the   
  probabltiy of a 10 pip target with a 5 pip stop loss trade here, or what is   
  the proabbiltiy of a 10 pip target with a 10 pip stop loss trade here? but    
  youd have to i would think test all these things before hand?                 

⏺ Yeah exactly. Once the model is trained, at any moment you just feed it the
  current candle data, current time, current economic data, current regime data
  — all of that stays the same — and then you loop through combinations:

  - 10 pip target, 5 pip stop → network outputs 0.72
  - 10 pip target, 10 pip stop → network outputs 0.81
  - 15 pip target, 5 pip stop → network outputs 0.43
  - 15 pip target, 10 pip stop → network outputs 0.58
  - 20 pip target, 10 pip stop → network outputs 0.35

  Instant. Same forward pass as your digit recognizer — just multiplication and
  addition. Takes milliseconds. You'd see in real time which risk/reward setup
  the model is most confident about right now given current conditions.

  But yes — before trusting any of that, you need to validate that those
  confidence numbers actually mean something. You'd do this on held-out test
  data: look at every time the model said 0.80+ for a 10/5 setup and check what
  percentage actually hit target. If the model says 80% and the real hit rate is
   80%, it's calibrated. If it says 80% but the real hit rate is 52%, the
  numbers are meaningless.

  So: train it, validate it on unseen data, confirm the confidence scores are
  calibrated, then and only then can you trust the real-time output.

❯ What happens if this occurs: If it says 80% but the real hit rate is 52%, the 
   numbers are                                                                  
    meaningless.                                                                

⏺ It means the model is overconfident — it thinks it knows more than it does.
  The 80% number coming out of the sigmoid is just a mathematical output, not a
  true probability.

  If this happens you have a few options:

  - The model learned nothing useful — the pattern isn't there. 52% is barely
  above a coin flip. You'd need to rethink the inputs, the question, or accept
  that there's no signal for that particular setup.
  - The model learned something but the confidence is miscalibrated — 52% is
  still better than 50%. The ranking might be useful even if the numbers are
  wrong. Like maybe when it says 80% the real rate is 52%, and when it says 60%
  the real rate is 48%. The model can't tell you the true probability, but it
  can tell you which setups are relatively better. You could build a calibration
   layer on top that maps the raw outputs to real probabilities based on
  historical performance.
  - It overfit — it memorized the training data and the confidence is
  meaningless on new data. Back to the data ratio problem.

  The important thing is you'd catch this during validation before ever trading
  on it. That's the entire point of the held-out test data — it tells you
  whether to trust the model or not before you put money on it.

❯ What exactly would you "catch" though?                                        

⏺ That the model's output doesn't match reality. That's it.

  You run the trained model on thousands of test examples it's never seen. You
  look at every time it said 80%+ and check: did the trade actually win? If the
  answer is "only 52% of the time," you now know the model doesn't work. You
  don't trade on it. You go back and fix it or abandon it.

  Without that validation step, you'd just deploy it, trust the 80%, and lose
  money because it's actually a coin flip.

❯ So im tyring to like then think about this, since its a sliding window, when  
  you are computing these predicabtliity tests, i woudl assume like if certain  
  times are like this scenario: If the model says 80% and the real hit          
     rate is 80%, and other times are this scenario: If it says 80% but the     
  real hit rate is 52%, the numbers are                                         
    meaningless. is this like something youd want to like look at? or like      
  account for? But its like is there a way to somehow even encode that into the 
   model itself like I cant quite articulate what im getting at but I woudl     
  think that you coudl somehow like encode this into the model itself so you    
  dont have to deal with it? or like it would be some sort of like after clean  
  up or something? im not sure, ultrathink                                      

⏺ I think what you're getting at is: can the model know when to trust itself?

  The short answer is: partially through the inputs, partially through 
  post-processing.

  Through the inputs: If the model is uncalibrated at certain times but
  calibrated at others, there's probably something different about those times
  that the model doesn't have visibility into. Maybe it's unreliable during news
   releases because it doesn't have enough information about the news event. If
  you add more features that describe the current conditions — volatility,
  whether a news event just happened, how unusual the current price action is —
  the model can learn "in these conditions I should output lower confidence." It
   naturally becomes less confident when conditions are noisy because it saw
  during training that those conditions produced unpredictable outcomes.

  So yes, encoding more context into the inputs is one way the model
  self-corrects.

  Through post-processing (calibration): After training, you take the validation
   data and build a simple mapping: "when the model outputs 0.80, the actual win
   rate is X." This is called Platt scaling or isotonic regression. It's a thin
  correction layer that translates the model's raw output into actual
  probabilities. So if the model says 0.80 but reality is 0.52, the calibration
  layer learns to map 0.80 → 0.52. Now the numbers you see are real
  probabilities.

  The practical approach is both. Give the model enough inputs that it can learn
   when conditions are favorable vs not. Then apply a calibration layer on top
  to make sure the final numbers match reality. The model does the heavy
  lifting, the calibration layer cleans up any remaining mismatch.

❯ But its like what if the model says 0.80 and sometimes the reality is 0.52    
  but sometimes its not?                                                        

⏺ That means something is different between those situations that the model
  can't see. When it outputs 0.80 and reality is 80%, some condition exists that
   makes the setup genuinely predictable. When it outputs 0.80 and reality is
  52%, some other condition exists that makes it unpredictable. But the model is
   outputting the same number for both because it doesn't have the input feature
   that distinguishes them.

  If you could figure out what's different between those two situations — maybe
  one happens during thin liquidity, or right before an unscheduled news event,
  or when institutional order flow is one-sided — and add that as an input, the
  model would learn to output 0.80 for the first case and 0.50 for the second.
  Problem solved.

  But if you can't identify what's different, or it's something you can't
  measure (like a hedge fund unwinding a massive position, or a geopolitical
  event nobody saw coming), then you can't fix it. The model will always be
  unreliable in those cases because the information simply isn't in the inputs.

  That's the fundamental ceiling. There will always be things that move price
  that you cannot encode. The goal isn't to eliminate that — it's to make sure
  the cases where the model IS right outnumber and outweigh the cases where it's
   wrong, after transaction costs. You don't need perfection. You need an edge.

❯ Hmm that seems important to consider actually wow ok so if I see varying      
  results liek that, it could very well be an indicaiton that there is a        
  missing input?                                                                

⏺ Yes exactly. Inconsistent results at the same confidence level is a signal
  that the model is missing information. It's seeing two situations as identical
   when they're actually different.

  It's like if your digit recognizer kept getting confused between 3s and 8s
  specifically. That would tell you the network doesn't have enough information
  to distinguish them — maybe the resolution is too low, or the strokes are too
  similar at that pixel count. You wouldn't just accept "sometimes it works,
  sometimes it doesn't." You'd ask what's different about the cases where it
  fails.

  Same logic here. If the model says 80% and sometimes it's right and sometimes
  it's a coin flip, the question is: what do the coin flip cases have in common
  that the correct cases don't? If you can answer that and encode it, the model
  improves. If you can't, you've found the boundary of what's predictable with
  the data available to you.

❯ Wait a second then could you combine this approach with like different        
  timeframes? Like im then wondering like what if you combined like a low time  
  frames confidecne values with a higher timeframes confidence values? Like the 
   same sliding window approach but considering various differnt time frames?   
  ultrathink                                                                    

⏺ Yeah, and there are two ways to do it:

  Option 1: Multi-timeframe inputs in one model (better)

  Instead of separate models, you feed one network candle data from multiple
  timeframes simultaneously:

  - Last 20 one-minute candles (immediate structure)
  - Last 20 fifteen-minute candles (session structure)
  - Last 20 one-hour candles (intraday trend)
  - Last 20 daily candles (macro trend)

  That's 20 × 4 OHLC × 4 timeframes = 320 inputs. Totally manageable with the
  sliding window data volume. And the network can learn the interactions between
   timeframes — like "short-term pattern is bullish AND daily trend is bullish"
  is a stronger signal than either alone. One model learns the cross-timeframe
  relationships.

  Option 2: Ensemble — separate models, combine outputs

  Train a 1-minute model, a 15-minute model, a daily model. Each outputs a
  confidence. Then either average them or feed those confidence values into a
  small second network that learns how to weight them. Simpler to build but
  can't learn the interactions between timeframes.

  Option 1 is more powerful because the network sees everything at once and can
  find patterns you'd never think to look for — like maybe a specific 1-minute
  candle pattern only matters when the daily candle is a certain shape.

  And here's the thing — this connects directly to what you just asked about. If
   the model was inconsistent at one timeframe (80% confidence but sometimes
  right, sometimes wrong), adding higher timeframe context might be exactly the
  missing input that distinguishes those cases. Maybe the times it was wrong
  were when the daily trend was against it. Now the model has that information
  and can adjust its confidence accordingly.

  This is essentially what traders do manually — check multiple timeframes for
  confluence. You'd be encoding that same logic into the network.

❯ HOly shit I didnt evne think to consider encoding all those as inputs at once 
   but that seems a lot more efficient, I was thinking like somehow you kept    
  them sepearte, but wait would putting all of it instead inot the same         
  timeframe be better? why or why? ultrathink                                   

⏺ One model is better because it can learn the relationships between timeframes,
   which separate models can't.

  Think about it with your digit recognizer. Imagine instead of feeding all 784
  pixels to one model, you split the image in half — top 392 pixels go to model
  A, bottom 392 go to model B, then you combine their outputs. Model A sees the
  top of a 3 and the top of a 7 — they look almost identical. It can't
  distinguish them because the answer is in the bottom half. Model B has the
  opposite problem. Neither model can see the full picture. One model seeing all
   784 pixels learns "top looks like X AND bottom looks like Y = it's a 3."

  Same thing with timeframes. The 1-minute pattern might be ambiguous on its own
   — sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't (your inconsistent confidence
  problem). But 1-minute pattern + daily candle showing strong downtrend = don't
   buy. One model sees both and learns that relationship directly. Separate
  models each make their own guess in isolation and you're left trying to figure
   out how to combine them after the fact.

  That's the core reason. The signal isn't in any single timeframe — it's in the
   combination. A single model can learn "this specific short-term pattern, in
  this specific macro context, with this specific volatility regime, has a high
  probability." Separate models can never make that connection because no single
   model sees the full picture.

❯ The only thing is then you would have to vary the inputs which this "varying" 
   this would occur during the testing phase right? Or actually wait it would   
  occur during the training phase right? So you would need to train it and come 
   up with lots of idfferent scenarios? but now thinking about it, i would      
  think it might be possible to do this faily quickly? Like it wouldnt take too 
   too long? ultrathink                                                         

⏺ You don't have to come up with scenarios manually — the historical data IS the
   scenarios. They generate themselves.

  Think about it: you slide your window forward through 5 years of minute data.
  At each position, the inputs are just whatever the candle data, economic data,
   time, etc. happened to be at that moment in history. And the label is
  computed by looking forward — did price hit +10 before -5? You can check that
  mechanically from the historical data.

  So the process is:

  1. Slide window to position 1 → read the candle data across all timeframes,
  read the current economic values, note the time → look forward to compute
  label → that's training example #1
  2. Slide forward one minute → same thing → example #2
  3. Repeat hundreds of thousands of times across years of data

  And for the pip target / stop loss inputs, at each position you can generate
  multiple examples:
  - Same candles, same time, but 10/5 target/stop → look forward, did it hit? →
  example A
  - Same candles, same time, but 15/5 target/stop → look forward, did it hit? →
  example B
  - Same candles, same time, but 10/10 target/stop → example C

  So each window position generates multiple training examples automatically.
  Millions of examples from a few years of data.

  As for speed — this is a small network. A few hundred inputs, small hidden
  layers, basic matrix math. Your digit recognizer trains on 60,000 examples in
  seconds. A network this size on a million examples would train in minutes on
  your MacBook. The data preparation (loading candles, computing labels,
  assembling all the features) would honestly take longer than the training
  itself.

❯ OK so the idea is we woudl want to vary the labels ina  sense, like because   
  we want to test differeent scnearios is what i mean?                          

⏺ Yeah. The labels change depending on what question you're asking. Same candle
  data, same moment in time, but:

  - "Did price hit +10 before -5?" → label: yes
  - "Did price hit +15 before -5?" → label: no
  - "Did price hit +10 before -10?" → label: yes

  Three different labels from the exact same market moment, because the question
   changed. And since pip target and stop loss are inputs to the model, all
  three are valid training examples that teach the network how the outcome
  changes as the trade parameters change.

  You're not testing these scenarios after training. They're all part of the
  training data. The network learns across all of them simultaneously — it sees
  millions of examples with varying candle data, varying times, varying pip
  targets, varying stop losses, and the corresponding yes/no outcomes. It learns
   the full picture at once.

  Then at inference time you just sweep the parameters and the network already
  knows the answer for each combination because it learned from all the
  variations during training.

❯ Wait a second, on top of the sliding window adding in more examples simply    
  because you can do more minutes, wouldnt the fact that you test differenet    
  scenarios per minute alos  additionally add in more exmaples like becasue for 
   each minute arent you asking mulitple different things? Like essentially:    
  - "Did price hit +10 before -5?" → label: yes                                 
                                                                                
    - "Did price hit +15 before -5?" → label: no                                
                                                                                
    - "Did price hit +10 before -10?" → label: yes  but i cant tell if im       
  thinking about this correctly or not? ultrathink                              

⏺ You're thinking about it correctly. It's a multiplier on top of the sliding
  window. Let me do the math:

  Sliding window alone:
  - 780 positions per day (every minute from 1am to 2pm)
  - × 252 trading days = ~196,000 examples per year

  Add varying trade parameters (say 10 combinations like 10/5, 10/10, 15/5, 
  15/10, 20/5, etc.):
  - 780 positions × 10 questions each = 7,800 examples per day
  - × 252 trading days = ~1,965,000 per year

  Add multiple pairs (say 5):
  - ~1,965,000 × 5 = ~9.8 million per year

  Over 5 years:
  - ~49 million examples

  And your input count stays the same — maybe 350 neurons. Network 350 → 32 → 16
   → 1 would be around 12,000 parameters. That's a ratio of roughly 4,000:1
  examples to parameters. Extremely healthy.

  So yeah — the sliding window multiplies your data by giving you more time
  positions, and varying the trade parameters multiplies it again by giving you
  multiple questions per position. They stack. That's why this approach
  completely solves the data scarcity problem you had with one-example-per-day.

❯ Well on top of varying the take profit pips and stop loss pips, could you     
  also vary the like time as well? like essentially, the amount of time, that   
  you test, like the minimium would be like your looking at 2 future candles    
  form the current time and the max would be maybe like up to 60 or osme other  
  number or something                                                           

⏺ Yeah exactly. Add a "time horizon" input — how many minutes/candles forward
  are you giving the trade to play out. So now at each sliding window position
  you're asking:

  - Did price hit +10 before -5 within 30 minutes?
  - Did price hit +10 before -5 within 60 minutes?
  - Did price hit +10 before -5 within 120 minutes?
  - Did price hit +10 before -5 within 240 minutes?

  Same candle data, same moment, same pip targets, different time horizon. Four
  more examples from the same position.

  So if you had 10 pip target/stop combos and say 8 time horizons, that's 80
  examples per window position instead of 10. Your 49 million becomes ~390
  million over 5 years across 5 pairs.

  And at inference time you'd see things like: "right now, a 10/5 trade has 73%
  confidence if given 30 minutes, but 81% confidence if given 2 hours." Which
  directly tells you whether to use a tighter or wider time stop for the current
   setup.

  Same network, same parameters, just one more input neuron for the time
  horizon. The data multiplies again.

❯ Im curious as well, is there any way to parrallelize any part of the whole    
  process? ultrathink                                                           

⏺ Yeah, almost every part of this can be parallelized:

  Data preparation — fully parallel. Each sliding window position is
  independent. Split 5 years of history across CPU cores — core 1 handles 2020,
  core 2 handles 2021, etc. Different pairs are completely independent too. This
   is probably the slowest step and it parallelizes perfectly.

  Hyperparameter search — fully parallel. Want to test 20 different network
  architectures, or different feature combinations? Each is an independent
  experiment. Run all 20 simultaneously on separate cores.

  Training (the matrix math) — parallel within each batch. This is why GPUs
  exist for ML. The forward pass and backprop are matrix multiplications —
  thousands of independent multiply-and-add operations that a GPU runs
  simultaneously. Your current train.mjs does them in nested for loops one at a
  time. A GPU does them all at once. That's the difference between minutes and
  seconds.

  Inference — fully parallel. All your parameter sweeps at inference time
  (different pip targets, stop losses, time horizons) are independent forward
  passes. Run all 80 combinations simultaneously instead of sequentially.

  The practical bottleneck with your current code: Your train.mjs is pure
  JavaScript with sequential loops. For this scale of data (millions of
  examples), you'd realistically want to either:

  - Switch to Python with PyTorch/TensorFlow — they handle GPU parallelization
  automatically
  - Or keep JavaScript but use GPU acceleration via WebGPU

  The neural network math is identical to what you already built. PyTorch just
  does the same matrix multiplications but on a GPU in parallel instead of one
  number at a time in a for loop. The concepts you learned from building it from
   scratch still apply — you'd just be letting the library handle the speed.

❯ But how can training be parrallelize because i thought it has to be           
  sequential to adjust the weight one at a time? or no? ultrathink              
⏺ Good question — you're right that there's a sequential part, but the
  parallelism happens within each step.

  Look at your training loop in train.mjs. For each mini-batch of 32 examples,
  it does:

  1. Run forward pass on example 1, compute gradients
  2. Run forward pass on example 2, compute gradients
  3. Run forward pass on example 3, compute gradients
  4. ...all 32 examples...
  5. Sum up all gradients
  6. Update weights once

  Steps 1-4 are what you're doing sequentially right now in your for loop. But
  they don't depend on each other — all 32 examples use the same weights. So a
  GPU runs all 32 forward passes and gradient computations simultaneously. Then
  it sums the gradients and updates weights once.

  What's parallel: everything within a batch — all examples, all neurons, all
  the multiplications in the matrix math. A GPU has thousands of cores doing
  these simultaneously.

  What's sequential: batch to batch. You must finish batch 1 and update weights
  before starting batch 2, because batch 2 needs the updated weights. Epochs are
   also sequential.

  So it's not "one weight at a time." It's "one batch at a time." And within
  each batch, thousands of operations happen in parallel.

  With a batch size of 512 on a GPU, you're processing 512 examples
  simultaneously. Your current JavaScript code processes them one at a time.
  Same math, same result, but the GPU version is hundreds of times faster
  because it does 512 at once instead of 1.

❯ How many parameters does our current proposed idea regarding the trading      
  nueral network have so far? ultrathink                                        

⏺ Let me add up everything we discussed:

  Inputs:

  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬────────┐
  │                      Feature                       │ Count  │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Primary pair OHLC × 4 timeframes (20 candles each) │ 320    │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Correlated pairs OHLC × 4 timeframes (4 pairs)     │ 1,280  │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Volume (primary pair, all timeframes)              │ 80     │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Economic data (CPI, NFP, PPI, rates, etc.)         │ ~20    │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Calendar (day of week, month, day of month)        │ 18     │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Regime (ATR, VIX, correlations, MA distance)       │ ~10    │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Entry time                                         │ 1      │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Pip target                                         │ 1      │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Stop loss                                          │ 1      │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Time horizon                                       │ 1      │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Other (sentiment, president party, etc.)           │ ~5     │
  ├────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼────────┤
  │ Total inputs                                       │ ~1,737 │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴────────┘

  Network 1737 → 32 → 16 → 1:
  - Layer 1: 1,737 × 32 + 32 biases = 55,616
  - Layer 2: 32 × 16 + 16 biases = 528
  - Layer 3: 16 × 1 + 1 bias = 17
  - Total: ~56,161 parameters

  Data (conservative estimate, 5 years, 5 pairs):
  - 780 window positions per day × 80 parameter combos × 5 pairs × 252 days × 5
  years
  - ~390 million examples

  Ratio: ~6,900:1 examples to parameters. Extremely healthy.

  The correlated pairs are what blow up the inputs. If you wanted to trim,
  cutting those from 4 timeframes to just daily for the other pairs would drop
  inputs from 1,737 to ~577. But with 390 million examples, 1,737 inputs is
  completely fine.

✻ Brewed for 36s

❯ ANd just so i understand this, something like nanochat, how many parameters   
  does that have?                                                               

⏺ I'm not sure what nanochat specifically refers to. Do you mean nanoGPT (Andrej
   Karpathy's project), or a specific app/model you've seen? Just want to make
  sure I answer about the right thing.

❯ Yeah nanoGPT                                                                  

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=nanoGPT+paramet
      er+count+how+many+parameters&count=20' \
        -H 'Accept: application/json' \…)
  ⎿  [
       {
         "siteName": "github.com",
     … +137 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ nanoGPT varies depending on configuration, but the common versions
  (https://github.com/karpathy/nanoGPT):

  - Tiny version (Shakespeare character-level): ~10.7 million parameters
  - Small/default (GPT-2 reproduction): ~124 million parameters
  - Minimal demo version: ~85,000 parameters

  Your proposed trading network at ~56,000 parameters is smaller than even the
  minimal nanoGPT demo. And GPT-2 small at 124 million is about 2,200x larger
  than your trading network.

  For perspective:
  - Your digit recognizer: ~13,000 parameters
  - Your proposed trading network: ~56,000 parameters
  - nanoGPT tiny: ~10,700,000 parameters
  - GPT-2 small: ~124,000,000 parameters
  - GPT-3: ~175,000,000,000 parameters
  - GPT-4/5 estimates: trillions

  The trading network is genuinely small. That's a good thing — it's fast to
  train, fast to run inference, and with hundreds of millions of training
  examples the ratio is extremely healthy.

❯ Is there ever a case scenario where the high ratio is a bad thing? ultrathink 

⏺ Yeah. The risk with a very high ratio is underfitting — the network is too
  simple to capture the pattern.

  Think of it like this with your digit recognizer. Imagine you had 60,000
  training images but your network was 784 → 1 → 10. One single hidden neuron.
  You have a great ratio — 60,000 examples to ~800 parameters. But that one
  neuron can only draw a single line through the input space. It physically
  cannot represent the difference between 10 different digit shapes. Training
  accuracy would be low. Test accuracy would be low. More data wouldn't help
  because the model isn't complex enough.

  Same thing could happen with the trading network. If the real pattern in the
  data involves complex interactions between volatility, time of day, economic
  data, and multi-timeframe candle structure, a network with only 56,000
  parameters might be too simple to represent those relationships. You'd see
  both training and test accuracy stuck at mediocre levels — the model is trying
   its best but it literally can't express the pattern.

  How you'd diagnose it:
  - Overfitting: training accuracy high, test accuracy low (memorized)
  - Underfitting: training accuracy low, test accuracy low (too simple)
  - Good fit: training accuracy high, test accuracy close behind

  The fix: increase network size — more neurons, more layers. But then the ratio
   drops, so you're always balancing between underfitting (too simple) and
  overfitting (too complex). The sweet spot is in the middle, and you find it by
   experimenting.

❯ If anything is it better to overfit or underfit? ultrathink                   

⏺ Neither is good, but they're dangerous in different ways:

  Underfitting is safer. It's honest — you see immediately that training
  accuracy is low and you know the model doesn't work. You can't fool yourself
  into trading on it. The path forward is clear: bigger network or better
  features.

  Overfitting is more dangerous. It looks like it works. Training accuracy is
  85%, your backtest looks amazing, you get excited. Then you trade real money
  and it's a coin flip. Overfitting is deceptive — especially with financial
  data where it's easy to find patterns in noise that look convincing. This is
  how people blow up accounts. They trust a backtest that was secretly just
  memorization.

  But — overfitting tells you something useful that underfitting doesn't. If the
   model can memorize the training data, it at least has enough capacity to
  represent the pattern. It learned too much, but you can pull it back with
  regularization, dropout, or more data. Underfitting means the model is
  fundamentally too simple — no amount of tuning fixes that without changing the
   architecture.

  So practically: you'd rather start slightly overfit and dial it back than
  start underfit and not know if the pattern is even learnable. But in trading
  specifically, overfitting is the thing that costs you money because it creates
   false confidence. Underfitting just wastes your time.

  The ideal workflow is: start with a model that overfits, confirm the pattern
  is learnable, then regularize until test accuracy approaches training
  accuracy. That convergence point is your real performance.

❯ Is there a way to tell whether a model is overfit or underfit?                

⏺ That's what I just described — you compare training accuracy to test accuracy:

  - Training high, test low → overfitting
  - Training low, test low → underfitting
  - Training high, test close behind → good fit

  That's it. That's the diagnostic. Which is why the held-out test data is so
  important — without it you can't tell the difference between a model that
  works and one that memorized.

❯ Could you vary the input timeframe? Or woudl that be something for a          
  different model? ultrathink                                                   

⏺ You could, by adding a "candle timeframe" input — like 1 for 1-minute, 5 for
  5-minute, 15 for 15-minute. But it's messy because the same 20 candle input
  slots would mean fundamentally different things depending on that value:

  - 20 one-minute candles = last 20 minutes of history
  - 20 fifteen-minute candles = last 5 hours of history

  The network would have to learn "when the timeframe input is 1, interpret
  these candle values one way; when it's 15, interpret them completely
  differently." That's asking a lot from a small network — it essentially has to
   learn separate models internally.

  The multi-timeframe approach we already discussed is the better solution to 
  this. You don't vary the timeframe — you include all of them simultaneously.
  The network already sees 1-minute, 15-minute, 1-hour, and daily candles in
  every single example. It can learn for itself which timeframe matters most
  under which conditions. If the signal is in the 1-minute structure, it weights
   those inputs heavily. If it's in the daily trend, it weights those. It
  figures this out automatically.

  So varying the timeframe as an input is technically possible but adds
  complexity for no real gain — you've already solved the problem by including
  all timeframes at once.

  Where a separate model would make sense is if you wanted to ask a
  fundamentally different question — like a model specifically designed for
  scalping 2-pip moves on 1-minute candles vs a model designed for 50-pip swing
  trades on daily candles. Those are different enough problems that separate
  models might be cleaner.

❯ Oh right i see it sliek maybe you may just want to leave the lower time frame 
   candles out as you go higher? Or I cant tell if thats correct, ultrathink    

⏺ Your intuition is right. If you're predicting a 50-pip move over the next few
  days, the 1-minute candle data from 3 hours ago is probably just noise. It
  adds inputs and parameters without adding useful information, and the model
  has to waste capacity learning to ignore it.

  So practically:

  Short-term model (5-10 pips, next 30-60 minutes):
  - 1-minute candles: essential
  - 15-minute candles: useful context
  - 1-hour candles: background trend
  - Daily candles: maybe, minimal value

  Medium-term model (20-50 pips, next few hours to a day):
  - 1-minute candles: drop — mostly noise at this horizon
  - 15-minute candles: essential
  - 1-hour candles: essential
  - Daily candles: useful context

  Longer-term model (50+ pips, multi-day):
  - 1-minute candles: drop
  - 15-minute candles: drop
  - 1-hour candles: useful
  - Daily candles: essential
  - Weekly candles: maybe add

  This is actually why separate models per prediction horizon might make more
  sense than one giant model with time horizon as an input. Each model is leaner
   — fewer inputs, fewer parameters, only sees what's relevant to its specific
  question. A scalping model and a swing model are really solving different
  problems.

❯ The serpeate models per prediction horizon, like for even the lower time      
  frame? or would you still want to put all the timeframes in together?         

⏺ You'd still want multiple timeframes — just the ones relevant to that horizon.
   The argument for multi-timeframe inputs still applies. Even for a short-term
  trade, knowing the higher timeframe context helps.

  So the short-term model (5-10 pips, 30-60 minutes) would still include:

  - 1-minute candles (immediate structure)
  - 15-minute candles (session context)
  - 1-hour candles (intraday trend)

  You're just cutting off the top end (no daily/weekly) because it's irrelevant
  noise for that horizon. The model still benefits from seeing "the 1-minute
  pattern is bullish AND the 1-hour trend confirms it" — that's the same
  multi-timeframe confluence logic, just applied to the appropriate range.

  Each prediction horizon gets its own band of timeframes:

  - Short-term: 1min + 15min + 1hr
  - Medium-term: 15min + 1hr + daily
  - Longer-term: 1hr + daily + weekly

  The principle doesn't change — multiple timeframes in one model is better than
   one timeframe alone. You're just shifting which timeframes are included based
   on what's relevant to the question being asked.

❯ So overrall I just need to deeply understand this whole digit recognizer      

⏺ Yeah. Everything we just talked about — the trading network, the inputs, the
  sliding window, the overfitting, the multi-timeframe approach, the calibration
   — it's all the same math as your digit recognizer. Same forward pass, same
  backprop, same SGD, same sigmoid and ReLU. The only things that change are
  what goes in and what comes out.

  If you deeply understand how those ~265 lines of train.mjs work — why the
  weights initialize that way, how the gradients flow backward, why the learning
   rate matters, what the batch size does — you can build any of what we
  discussed. It's the same engine, different fuel.

❯ Question though, has anyone ever tried doing this? Like this feels like such  
  an obvious thing to do, have poeple done so?                                  

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=neural+network+
      forex+trading+prediction+backtest+results&count=20' \
        -H 'Accept: application/json' \…)
  ⎿  [
       {
         "siteName": "www.forexfactory.com",
     … +190 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Yeah, tons of people have tried this. It's probably one of the most attempted
  applications of neural networks. Academic papers, retail traders, commercial
  software, quant firms — everyone's taken a shot at it.

  What the search results reveal is telling:

  The results are consistently mediocre. Most studies report directional
  accuracy of 52-60% — barely above a coin flip. That Medium article mentions
  hitting 0.56 accuracy on validation and being excited about it. The Forex
  Factory thread concludes that "price has no predictive value" after extensive
  testing. (https://www.forexfactory.com/thread/1121309-neural-network-strategy)

  People have tried exactly what we discussed:
  - Feedforward networks with OHLC inputs (https://www.researchgate.net/publicat
  ion/260795498_Forex_predicton_with_neural_network_usdeur_currency_pair)
  - LSTMs (recurrent networks) for sequence data
  (https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s42521-020-00019-x)
  - CNNs that literally convert charts to images and classify them
  (https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.03018)
  - Multi-currency pair inputs (https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.01166)
  - Commercial point-and-click software for it (NeuroShell Trader)

  Nobody has a proven, publicly shared model that consistently makes money.
  Which either means:
  1. The signal is too weak or doesn't exist in the features people are using
  2. Anyone who found something that works isn't sharing it
  3. The edge is so small it gets eaten by spreads and slippage

  That doesn't mean it's impossible — it means the obvious approaches have been
  tried extensively and the results are marginal. If there's an edge to be
  found, it's probably in the specifics: the exact feature engineering, the
  label definition, the regime awareness, the calibration — all the stuff we
  discussed. The architecture is the easy part. Everyone uses roughly the same
  networks. The differentiation is in how you frame the problem.

❯ " The                                                                         
    Forex Factory thread concludes that "price has no predictive value" after   
  extensive testing." This doesnt make sense to me though because how do some   
  people claim to "see things" int he marekt, and why would all these concepts  
  of resistance and support and other things even be created but not only       
  created, but rather perpetuated forward, if they were NOT true? liek          
  inherntly as a human I feel like you can see there is some aspect ot these    
  things maybe, at least to a slight degree you can see these concepts of       
  support and resistance and consolidation and expansion                        

⏺ You're raising a good point, and I think the Forex Factory poster's conclusion
   is too strong. There's a more nuanced answer:

  Support and resistance work, but not for the reason most people think. They're
   largely self-fulfilling prophecies. If thousands of traders all believe
  1.1750 is support, they all place buy orders there. Price bounces — not
  because of some inherent property of that number, but because of the
  collective behavior. Institutional orders cluster at key levels. Stop losses
  cluster at obvious levels. Everyone watches the same charts. It's a
  coordination game.

  That's actually real signal. The fact that it's driven by human behavior
  doesn't make it less real. It means the pattern exists because of market
  structure and psychology, not because of some mathematical property of price
  itself. And that's a meaningful distinction for a neural network — the network
   would need features that capture where other traders are likely acting, not
  just raw price values.

  Why a neural network might miss it despite it being real:

  A network seeing 20 raw OHLC candles doesn't know that price bounced off
  1.1750 three times last month. That history isn't in the input. It doesn't
  know there's a round number nearby. It doesn't know there's a cluster of stop
  losses below that level. The pattern exists, but the features needed to
  capture it aren't just raw candle values — they're things like distance from
  recent swing lows, distance from round numbers, number of touches at a level,
  volume profile.

  The real answer is probably: price alone has weak predictive value. Price
  combined with context about why price might react at certain levels has more.
  The people who "see things" in the market are unconsciously processing context
   that a raw OHLC feed doesn't capture — they remember that level held last
  week, they know NFP is in 20 minutes, they see the volume dropping. They're
  integrating features that a naive neural network doesn't have access to.

  Which circles back to everything we discussed — the features you choose to
  encode are the entire game.

✻ Crunched for 35s
❯ But have people actually tried real nueral networks like what were            
  discusssing? Or at least I feel like what we discuss is more real than: "CNNs 
   that literally convert charts to images and classify them                    
  (https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.03018)" lol, ultrathink                           

⏺ Honestly, most public attempts are way more naive than what we discussed. The
  typical approach you see in papers and forums is:

  - Feed in last N closing prices
  - Predict "up or down tomorrow"
  - Report 55% accuracy
  - Write a paper about it

  The specific combination we discussed is more thoughtful than most public
  work. In particular:

  Things most people DON'T do that we discussed:
  - Making pip target, stop loss, and time horizon inputs to the model — most
  people hardcode these and train separate models or just predict direction
  - The label "did price hit +X before hitting -Y within Z time" — most papers
  predict next candle's close price or just up/down, which is a much weaker
  question for actual trading
  - Multi-timeframe candle data as simultaneous inputs to one model — some
  papers do this but it's not common
  - Regime indicators as inputs (ATR, VIX, correlations)
  - Calibration checking — almost nobody in public research validates whether
  the confidence scores match real hit rates
  - Time-weighted training

  The CNN chart image approach is actually the perfect example of how most
  people approach this lazily. "Traders look at charts, so let's feed chart
  images to a neural network." They're throwing away the numerical precision of
  the data, converting it to pixels, and then asking the network to reconstruct
  the patterns from images. It's the least efficient encoding possible.

  The people who HAVE tried sophisticated approaches — quant firms — don't
  publish their methods. That's why the public research looks underwhelming. The
   good ideas are behind closed doors. Which doesn't mean nobody's thought of
  what we discussed — it means the people who have aren't sharing.

  So to answer your question: the individual pieces exist in scattered papers.
  The specific combination we discussed, particularly making trade parameters
  into inputs so the model learns which setups work best across all conditions
  simultaneously — that's a more complete framework than most public attempts.

✻ Churned for 36s

❯ Im sorry but this is jsut hilarious: "CNNs that literally convert charts to   
  images and classify them (https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.03018)" ultrathink       

⏺ It's literally the reverse of your digit recognizer. You built something that
  takes an image and figures out the number. They took perfectly precise numbers
   — OHLC values accurate to 5 decimal places — converted them into an image,
  and then asked a neural network to figure out the numbers again from the
  pixels.

  It's like having a spreadsheet, printing it out, taking a photo of the
  printout, and then running OCR on the photo to read the values. You had the
  spreadsheet the whole time.

❯ Fucking damn that was good, that was good                                     

⏺ Haha. But yeah that paper is a perfect example of why most public research in
  this space doesn't go anywhere. People reach for fancy architectures before
  thinking clearly about how to frame the problem. A simple feedforward network
  with well-chosen inputs and well-defined labels will beat a sophisticated
  architecture with a dumb setup every time.

❯ Cna you try to donwlaod that paper and see if they actually did that?         

⏺ Bash(wget -O /tmp/cnn_forex.pdf 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.03018')
  ⎿  --2026-05-12 07:33:41--  https://arxiv.org/pdf/1801.03018
     Resolving arxiv.org (arxiv.org)... 151.101.3.42, 151.101.195.42, 151.1
     01.67.42, ...
     … +48 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Bash(python3 -c "import fitz; [print(p.get_text()) for p in
      fitz.open('/tmp/cnn_forex.pdf')]")
  ⎿  Predict Forex Trend via Convolutional Neural Networks
     Yun-Cheng Tsai,1∗Jun-Hao Chen,2 Jun-Jie Wang3
     1Center for General Education
     … +423 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

  Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Yeah they absolutely did it. Here's what they actually did:

  1. Took raw price data (Japanese Yen exchange rates)
  2. Used Python Matplotlib to literally plot the price as a chart image — with
  colored moving average lines (MA5, MA10, MA20), inverted the colors so the
  background was black
  3. Fed those rendered chart images (100×150 or 300×400 pixel images) into CNN
  architectures (including AlexNet)
  4. Tried to classify them as "buy," "sell," or "no action"

  The results: It didn't work. They literally say "the results do not fit the
  expectation" and "neither the simple nor the complex architectures worked
  well." The model kept predicting "no action" for everything. After failing on
  real data, they switched to simulated data generated by a geometric Brownian
  motion model (basically fake random price data), and it worked better on that
  — which tells you nothing about real markets.

  So they took precise numerical OHLC data, rendered it into a matplotlib chart
  PNG, fed the pixels into AlexNet (a model designed for recognizing dogs and
  cats), it didn't work on real data, so they tested on fake data instead and
  called it a paper.

✻ Brewed for 48s

❯ Ok have there been any other real approaches closer ot what we discussed?     
  ultrathink                                                                    

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=neural+network+
      forex+multi+timeframe+OHLC+input+features+take+profit+stop+loss+sliding+wi
      ndow+backtest…)
  ⎿  [
       {
         "siteName": "www.mdpi.com",
     … +170 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=%22take+profit%
      22+%22stop+loss%22+%22neural+network%22+input+feature+forex+predict+probab
      ility&count=2…)
  ⎿  [
       {
         "siteName": "www.linkedin.com",
     … +22 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=neural+network+
      multi+timeframe+forex+crypto+OHLC+economic+data+regime+features+out+of+sam
      ple&count=20'…)
  ⎿  [
       {
         "siteName": "arxiv.org",
     … +157 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ There are two interesting finds:

  Closest match — this one is very close to what we discussed:

  A 2025 paper on crypto markets (https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.02356) does
  multi-timeframe analysis with neural networks. Their architecture uses
  separate CNN heads processing minute, hourly, and daily OHLCV data
  simultaneously, plus sentiment data, order book stats, and broader market
  context (S&P 500, Bitcoin dominance). They also include regime detection to
  avoid trading during uncertain periods. This is the closest public work to
  what we discussed — multi-timeframe candle data + external context + regime
  awareness in one model. And they report positive risk-adjusted returns.

  The TP/SL as input idea — almost nobody does this:

  One Medium article (https://medium.com/@amilkar0417/designing-a-loss-function-
  for-multi-prediction-neural-networks-forecasting-forex-trades-fa275d2da5e6)
  explicitly tackles the problem of "at any given moment, there are multiple
  possible trade decisions that could result in a successful trade" and tries to
   predict optimal take-profit and stop-loss values. But they're predicting
  TP/SL as outputs, not using them as inputs like we discussed. The idea of
  making TP/SL inputs so the network learns the probability across all parameter
   combinations simultaneously — I couldn't find anyone publicly doing that.

  The common pattern across most research:

  - Predict next candle's close price or just up/down direction
  - Use OHLC from a single timeframe
  - No economic data
  - No regime indicators
  - No trade parameter inputs
  - Report 52-60% directional accuracy and call it a contribution

  The specific combination we discussed — multi-timeframe OHLC + economic
  calendar + regime features + trade parameters as inputs + "does price hit TP
  before SL within time horizon" as the label + sliding window data
  multiplication + calibration validation — I can't find that assembled as a
  complete framework anywhere in public research. The individual pieces exist
  scattered across papers, but nobody seems to have put them all together.

✻ Cooked for 56s

❯ Genuinly? YOu cant?                                                           

⏺ No, I genuinely can't find it assembled as a complete framework in public
  research. The individual components exist in isolation — multi-timeframe here,
   economic data there, regime detection somewhere else. But the specific idea
  of making trade parameters (TP, SL, time horizon) into input features so the
  model learns across all combinations simultaneously, combined with
  multi-timeframe OHLC + economic data + regime indicators + the "did price hit
  TP before SL" label definition — that particular composition doesn't appear in
   anything I found.

  Which could mean:

  1. Quant firms do exactly this (or more sophisticated versions) and don't
  publish it
  2. Someone has done it in a private repo or Discord and it never made it to a
  paper
  3. Academic researchers tend to stick to "predict next candle's close" because
   it's cleaner to write about
  4. Nobody actually assembled the pieces this way

  I'd bet heavily on #1. The ideas themselves aren't individually novel —
  they're all well-known concepts. But the way they compose together into a
  single model with trade parameters as inputs is something I couldn't find
  publicly documented. That doesn't make it groundbreaking — it might just mean
  it's too practical for academia and too obvious for quant firms to bother
  publishing.

❯ https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.02356 how sucessful was this? and ok can you give  
  a solid attempt to look harder? Like i want you to look really really deep    
  ultrathink                                                                    

⏺ Bash(wget -O /tmp/multi_timeframe_crypto.pdf
      'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.02356')
  ⎿  --2026-05-12 07:38:08--  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.02356
     Resolving arxiv.org (arxiv.org)... 151.101.3.42, 151.101.195.42, 151.1
     01.67.42, ...
     … +18 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Bash(python3 -c "import fitz; [print(p.get_text()) for p in
      fitz.open('/tmp/multi_timeframe_crypto.pdf')]" >
      /tmp/multi_timeframe_crypto.txt 2>&1)
  ⎿  (No output)

  Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Now let me search deeper for approaches closer to what we discussed.

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=%22trade+parame
      ters%22+%22input+features%22+neural+network+%22stop+loss%22+%22take+profit
      %22+predict+p…)
  ⎿  []

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=neural+network+
      %22sliding+window%22+%22economic+indicators%22+%22multi+timeframe%22+OHLC+
      forex+OR+curr…)
  ⎿  []

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=%22hit+target%2
      2+OR+%22hit+take+profit%22+%22before%22+%22stop+loss%22+neural+network+OR+
      deep+learning…)  ⎿  []

⏺ All three returned empty — too specific. Let me broaden.

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=machine+learnin
      g+trading+label+%22triple+barrier%22+method+forex+OR+stock&count=20' \
        -H 'Accept: ap…)
  ⎿  [
       {
         "siteName": "arxiv.org",
     … +175 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Bash(curl -s
      'https://api.search.brave.com/res/v1/web/search?q=reinforcement+learning+f
      orex+optimal+stop+loss+take+profit+neural+network+parameterized&count=20'
      \…)
  ⎿  [
       {
         "siteName": "medium.com",
     … +172 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Bash(curl -s 'https://www.reddit.com/r/algotrading/search.json?q=neural+networ
      k+multi+timeframe+OHLC+stop+loss+take+profit+input&restrict_sr=on&sort=rel
      evance&t=all&…)
  ⎿  Title: 6 year algo trading model delivering the goods
     Score: 716
     URL: https://reddit.com/r/algotrading/comments/1oob9kv/6_year_algo_tra
     … +65 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ This is a major find. Let me dig into two things — the Triple Barrier Method
  and the Korean stock paper.

⏺ Bash(wget -O /tmp/korean_triple_barrier.pdf
      'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2504.02249')
  ⎿  --2026-05-12 07:39:16--  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2504.02249
     Resolving arxiv.org (arxiv.org)... 151.101.3.42, 151.101.195.42, 151.1
     01.67.42, ...
     … +19 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ Search the websites direclty themselves if your able and also use the         
  websearch tool                                                                

⏺ Bash(python3 -c "import fitz; [print(p.get_text()) for p in
      fitz.open('/tmp/korean_triple_barrier.pdf')]" >
      /tmp/korean_triple_barrier.txt 2>&1)
  ⎿  (No output)

⏺ Web Search("Marcos Lopez de Prado triple barrier method neural network trade
            parameters as inputs features")
  ⎿  Did 1 search in 9s

⏺ Web Search("neural network trading "take profit" "stop loss" as input features
             parameterized model predict probability")
  ⎿  Did 1 search in 8s

⏺ Web Search("multi timeframe OHLC neural network economic indicators regime
            detection forex trading system results")
  ⎿  Did 1 search in 9s

⏺ Web Search("Amilkar Herrera neural network forex take profit stop loss
            multi-prediction results")
  ⎿  Did 1 search in 10s

⏺ Web Search(""alphafx" forex trading system regime detection multi-timeframe
            neural network results performance")
  ⎿  Did 1 search in 8s

  Searched for 1 pattern, read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Now let me read the crypto paper's actual results more carefully.

  Read 1 file (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ OK, here's what I found from the deep dive:

  ---
  The crypto multi-timeframe paper (https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.02356):

  Results are modest. Their best architecture (CNN + Soft Attention) achieved a
  profit factor of 1.15 — meaning for every $1 lost, they made $1.15. That's
  positive but thin. Without the attention mechanism, the CNN alone scored 0.98
  (net losing). They use ~520,000 parameters, multi-timeframe OHLCV
  (minute/hourly/daily), sentiment data, on-chain metrics, S&P 500 context, and
  regime-adaptive retraining. The closest public system to what we discussed,
  but they don't use trade parameters as inputs.

  The Triple Barrier Method — this is the big find:

  Marcos Lopez de Prado (former head of Abu Dhabi Investment Authority's quant
  division) formalized exactly the label definition you independently described
  in his book Advances in Financial Machine Learning (2018). His "Triple
  Barrier" has three barriers:
  - Upper barrier: take profit level (price goes up X%)
  - Lower barrier: stop loss level (price goes down Y%)
  - Vertical barrier: time limit (trade expires after N days)

  Label = whichever barrier gets hit first. That's literally your "did price hit
   +10 pips before -5 pips before end of day" idea. It's an established,
  well-regarded method in quant finance.
  (https://www.newsletter.quantreo.com/p/the-triple-barrier-labeling-of-marco)

  The Korean stock paper (https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.02249):

  Used Triple Barrier labeling with raw OHLCV on Korean stocks. Best F1 score:
  0.4312 with an LSTM (hidden size 8, window 100 days). Interesting findings:
  raw OHLCV matched XGBoost with 30+ technical indicators. Only ~2,235
  parameters. But 43% accuracy on a 3-class problem where random is 33% — a real
   edge but small.

  Amilkar Herrera's work
  (https://medium.com/@amilkar0417/designing-a-loss-function-for-multi-predictio
  n-neural-networks-forecasting-forex-trades-fa275d2da5e6):

  He's the closest to your TP/SL idea. His network outputs three predictions:
  buy/sell, TP level, and SL level. But he makes them outputs (the network
  predicts what TP/SL should be), not inputs (asking the network the probability
   for a given TP/SL combo). He only tested on synthetic data — not real forex.
  He also wrote a follow-up exploring reinforcement learning approaches
  (https://medium.com/@amilkar0417/bridging-the-gap-integrating-reinforcement-le
  arning-principles-into-forex-trading-neural-networks-d5909846e187).

  AlphaFX (https://github.com/amin-sharifi-github/alphafx-trading-system):

  Open-source forex system with multi-timeframe signal generation (M1, M5, M15),
   GMM-based regime detection, and Kelly-based risk management. Closest to the
  full pipeline we discussed in terms of engineering, but uses traditional
  indicators rather than neural networks with trade parameters as inputs.

  ---
  Bottom line: The Triple Barrier labeling (your label idea) is established and
  respected. Multi-timeframe neural networks exist but show modest results
  (profit factor 1.15). Raw OHLCV in neural networks works about as well as
  engineered indicators. But the specific idea of making TP, SL, and time
  horizon inputs to the model so it learns across all combinations
  simultaneously — I still can't find anyone doing that publicly. Herrera came
  closest but went the opposite direction (predicting TP/SL as outputs rather
  than conditioning on them as inputs).

✻ Sautéed for 3m 7s

❯ So what were these papers looking at?                                         

⏺ Mostly predicting direction or next price — not what you described.

  - Most papers: "will price go up or down next period?" Label is just
  direction. No defined TP, SL, or time constraint.
  - Korean paper: Used Triple Barrier (TP/SL/time limit) for labeling, but with
  fixed barrier parameters (9% barriers, 29-day window). They didn't vary them
  or make them inputs. One fixed scenario, one model.
  - Crypto paper: Predicting buy/sell/hold direction across timeframes. No TP/SL
   in the model at all — trade management is handled separately after the
  prediction.
  - Amilkar Herrera: Trying to predict what the optimal TP and SL should be as
  outputs. Not asking "given this TP/SL, what's the probability it hits?"

  None of them are asking the question you framed: "given these candles + this
  TP + this SL + this time horizon, what is the probability of the TP hitting
  before the SL?" Where you sweep the parameters at inference to find the
  highest confidence setup.

  They're all asking simpler, less tradeable questions. "Will it go up?" doesn't
   tell you where to set your TP, where to set your SL, or how long to hold.
  Your framing produces a directly actionable output — a probability for a
  specific trade with specific parameters. Theirs produces a direction guess
  that still requires separate decisions about how to actually trade it.

❯ Wait so overrall, at the fundamental level, the network would do what? Like   
  the first layer is essentially this sliding window, but what are the input    
  exactly?                                                                      

⏺ The inputs for one training example would be:

  Candle data (the sliding window — fixed count, slides forward):
  - Last 20 one-minute candles OHLCV for the primary pair
  - Last 20 fifteen-minute candles OHLCV for the primary pair
  - Last 20 one-hour candles OHLCV for the primary pair
  - Last 20 daily candles OHLCV for the primary pair
  - Same for correlated pairs

  Context data (changes slowly, same for many consecutive examples):
  - Latest economic releases (CPI, NFP, etc. — actual, forecast, surprise)
  - Interest rates per currency
  - Day of week, month, day of month

  Regime data:
  - Current ATR/volatility
  - VIX
  - Cross-pair correlations
  - Distance from key moving averages

  Trade parameters (what you're asking the network about):
  - Entry time
  - Pip target (TP)
  - Stop loss (SL)
  - Time horizon

  Output (label):
  - 1 or 0: did price hit the TP before hitting the SL, within the time horizon?

  All of those get flattened into a single row of numbers — that's your input
  layer. Same as how your digit recognizer takes 784 pixel values. The network
  takes all of these in, runs them through hidden layers, and outputs a single
  number between 0 and 1 (sigmoid) representing the probability of the TP
  hitting before the SL within the time horizon.

  The sliding window is just how you generate the examples. At each position in
  time, you read the current candle data, the current context, plug in different
   TP/SL/time horizon combos, look forward in history to compute the label, and
  that's one training example. Slide forward, repeat.

❯ Is it also possibel to somehow vary the number of candles? would this be      
  something worth considering? liek if you varied the number of one minute      
  candles for example? ultrathink                                               

⏺ You can't vary it directly in a feedforward network — the input size is fixed.
   But you don't need to. There's a cleaner approach:

  Just include the maximum you'd ever want. If you think anywhere from 5 to 100
  one-minute candles might be useful, always feed 100. The network will learn
  for itself how much history matters. If only the last 20 candles contain
  useful signal, the weights for candles 21-100 will naturally shrink toward
  zero during training. The network effectively discovers the optimal lookback
  length on its own.

  This is the same logic as "don't train separate models — make it an input."
  Here it's "don't vary the window — give it everything and let the network
  decide what to ignore."

  You have hundreds of millions of training examples. The network has more than
  enough data to figure out "candles 80-100 matter, candles 1-79 are noise for
  this setup." And crucially, it might learn something more nuanced than a fixed
   cutoff — like "in high volatility, the last 10 candles matter most, but in
  low volatility, the last 50 do." It learns a conditional lookback that you'd
  never find by manually testing different fixed window sizes.

  So instead of varying the number, just pick a generous maximum, feed them all
  in every time, and let the network sort it out. One less thing to sweep
  manually, one more thing the network optimizes for you.

✻ Brewed for 32s